The waning trust and confidence in the police from the public has become a source of worry for the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, who has vowed to change the narratives, NICHOLAS KALU reports.  Some days ago, a video of a young man being manhandled by three armed policemen in Enugu, Enugu State went viral on social media. The video was taken by someone who witnessed the incident and covertly recorded it (despite the risk to himself) and shared it online. In that video, the policemen were trying to collect the young man’s mobile phone after accusing him of being a fraudster. The young man, identified as Justice Obasi, resisted attempts by the policemen to forcibly collect his telephone. This earned him serious beatings by the policemen who ignored pleas by people around to let the young man go. The video was greeted with outrage the moment it went viral. The police responded on their verified handle @policeNG that they would investigate and get to the bottom of the matter. There was the usual skepticism by individuals who responded to the assurances from the police authorities. Some of the respondents sniggered at the police. However, the police announced a few hours later that the three policemen had been identified and arrested. The police assured that proper disciplinary actions would be taken against errant policemen and that their victim would get justice. In another instance, another Twitter user drew the attention of the police authorities to a video where some armed men dressed in police uniform allegedly extorted money from members of the public with a Point Of Sale (POS) machine. In a swift reaction, the Nigeria Police assured that an immediate investigation would be conducted on the viral video. “The Inspector-General of Police (IGP) condemns all acts of corruption by public servants, particularly police officers and is committed to bringing to book any officer found wanting in this regard,” the police authorities said in response. These instances represent a few of several instances of police brutality against innocent and unarmed citizens. This has been responsible for the lack of trust and erosion of confidence in police personnel over the years. The Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, however, has vowed to redeem the image of his officers and men across board. This, according to him, is a necessary step towards getting the public involved in policing for a better society. At a meeting with newly promoted Assistant-Inspectors General of Police, IGP Adamu, cautioned his officers against the use of brute force in the discharge of their duties. He stressed that modern policing requires the deployment of intellect, respect for extant laws, being civil to citizens, knowledge, and sound professional judgment. The IGP canvassed the engagement of community-driven, intelligence-led and technology-guided policing strategies as well as the renewed commitment of personnel to their mandates. A strong advocate for community policing, Adamu tends to believe that it is only when you are close to the people you are protecting that the best results can be achieved. The police and other security agencies are battling hydra-headed security challenges, including kidnapping, robbery, banditry, cultism and violent communal clashes across the country. Against these realities, the IGP thought getting closer to the people would help to check these problems and went on to launch Operation Puff Adder on April 5, last year as an operational intervention blueprint to stabilise the internal security space within the shortest possible time frame. According to him, Operation Puff Adder is well-coordinated, intelligence-driven and community backed, adding that the personnel are proactive in orientation. The IGP said the operation had yielded results within the set target period as many high-profile anti-banditry, anti-kidnapping and anti-robbery operations were successfully undertaken across the country under the framework. Adamu said: “Our achievements under the Operation Puff Adder restored citizens’ confidence in the Nigeria Police and provided us with the opportunity to emplace long-term policing plans with a view to strengthening our achievements on a sustainable basis. It is in this regard that we outlined a strategic policy plan, which is predicated on the full adoption and integration of citizen-oriented, intelligence-led and technology-driven policing practices.” He revealed that 6,531 high profile criminal suspects were arrested between January and December last year. A total of 2,037 firearms of various calibre and descriptions, 21,037 ammunition and 1,662 stolen vehicles were recovered within the same period. Also rescued were 945 kidnap victims in various operations across the country. Adamu has always warned his men to work with a new orientation and firm determination to demonstrate competent and firm leadership that will not only sustain their profile as courageous and professional, but as one that will never compromise discipline and respect for the rights of citizens. He has continued to warn that henceforth high-handedness against the public would attract stern disciplinary actions. At a conference with Commanders of the Police Mobile Force (PMF), Counter-Terrorism Units (CTU) and Special Protection Units (SPU), Adamu warned his men against disrespecting the rights of citizens while discharging their duties. The police boss said any illegal or unprofessional conduct would not be tolerated, adding that they would be held accountable not only for their actions or inactions, but for the professional infractions of all the personnel under their command.  He said: “As we strive to enhance your orientation and strengthen your professional capacity in dealing with current and emerging crimes, let me remind you that as Commanders, you shall be held accountable either directly or vicariously, not only for your actions or inactions, but also for the professional infractions of all the personnel under your command. “Of late, there have been reports of incidents of incivility to citizens, misuse of firearms, deployment of personnel on unauthorised duties and mounting of illegal road blocks by personnel under your watch all against extant directives of the leadership of the Nigeria Police Force. “These unprofessional and illegal conducts are most intolerable. Your primary duty is the protection of lives and property of citizens and strict adherence to Force orders and directives in so doing. Indeed, the need to perform your duties within the dictates of rule of law and best international standards is sacrosanct and should never be compromised under any circumstance or guise.” Adamu also made it known that he was committed to manage the image and information dissemination process towards repositioning the Nigeria Police and changing the negative perceptions and faulty narratives about the Police. At a meeting with Police Public Relations Officers in Awka, Anambra State, last year, he said this was with “a view to rebranding the Force, advancing our fortunes, and restoring our primacy within the internal security architecture of the nation”. He, however, admitted that certain indiscretions and perceived inactions by some personnel of the Force, as well as the security challenges in some parts of the country, impact negatively on the image of the Force. “This reality, coupled with the dynamic nature of crime, rapidly advancing information and communication technology, and the changing policing environment that we deal with in the line of our duty, have combined to redefine both the concept of policing and the perception of the police by the citizens. “Indeed, experts have asserted that there is an intertwining relationship between public perception and the effectiveness of the police to attain its internal security mandate”, he said then. He had emphasised the need to win over public trust and confidence as a pathway to crime management. He urged that the officers rebrand the police and project it positively to the citizens. “It is indeed in cognizance of this that we are embracing the concept of community policing, which is directed at building strong partnership with the citizens in our drive to attain our mandate,” he said. To him, a crucial way to fight insecurity is to build confidence in the people and work closely with them. He stressed that one cannot be brutalising or exploiting someone and yet intend to gain the confidence to work together on any issue. What is left to be seen is whether or not the Police under Adamu will walk the talk as distrust continues to grow among the public. For a start, the police authorities would have to keep the public abreast of the various disciplinary actions meted out to errant police personnel. Virtually all his predecessors had tried in vain to restore public confidence in the police. Will IGP Adamu succeed in this task? Only time will tell.