Nobody knew that such fate would befall  two innocent five-year-old children on January 30,2019 in Eziowelle,Idemili North Local Government Area of Anambra State. They were students of Uzibi Primary school in the sleepy community before they were kidnapped by unknown persons. Since the two pupils were abducted about a year ago, they have not been seen, despite efforts by the security outfits and the community to locate them. As a result, the families of both pupils and the community have cried out to the state government and security agencies to help. The kidnapped pupils are Tukwasickukwuobi Maduako and Chinenye Amaife, both friends and five years old. The amilies of both children have raised the alarm that the community is  being taken over by miscreants in the area. They alleged that the abduction of their children may have been influenced by some people in the community. Speaking with The Nation, Mrs Victoria Maduako, the grand mother of Tukwasichukwuobi, said the kidnap of her grandchild had been giving her sleepless nights since last year. The elderly woman, in tears, cursed those behind the kidnap of the children to the effect that good things would elude them and  their families. According to her, “The boy went to school that day and the next thing I heard from people was that  he had been kidnapped. “When the report came, I thought it was a joke until I got to the school and I was told that  he had not been seen that day. “And since that day, he has not been seen and I don’t know where they have taken my child to whether he is dead or alive, all I need is to see him.” Also, for Mrs Elizabeth Amaife, the mother of Chinenye, “Those unknown persons that kidnapped my boy would not go unpunished”. She said  lamentations, agony and pains had become part of her since the day the incident happened. Amaife told The Nation that the state government, led by Chief Willie Obiano, should help her secure the release of her child. She alleged that the kidnap of her child may not be unconnected with the leadership crisis rocking Eziowelle community for some time now. And following the Town Union problems  going on in the community that snowballed into the abduction of thepupils, no fewer than 500 members from the town had protested to Obiano. They stormed the state Government  House to demand for the dissolution of the caretaker committee in the area and immediate release of the two boys. The protesters, who besieged the gate of the Government House,including widows, youths and the elderly,  were led by Chief Anthony Ojemba Chigbo, They carried placards with different inscriptions like “Governor Obiano, save Eziowelle town from sliding further into anarchy, the problem of Eziowelle can best be described as ‘tyranny of the minority”, among others. According to Chigbo, “The problem of the community is a clique who see Eziowelle as their fiefdom that must be governed by their cronies in an undemocratic, closed unwritten vicious succession arrangement.” When contacted on the matter, the State Police Public Relations Officer, PPRO, Haruna Mohammed, said as far as he was concerned, he was not aware of the incident. He said people should not politicise every issue, adding that even if the police were on the matter and they were not satisfied with whatever investigations, they should come to the Police Headquarters to report it, instead of reporting to the press; are they police? Mohammed asked.