 President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday was in Ondo state to commission some Projects to mark the 3rd year anniversary of Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu’s administration. The two projects are Ondo Linyl Industrial Hub and Ore flyover interchange. At the event were Governors Godwin Obaseki of Edo,Dr Kayode Fayemi(Ekiti) and Dapo Abiodun of Ogun state with Ondo state Deputy Governor,Agboola Ajayi, Chief Pius Akinyelure,Pius Osunyikanmi and others. Traditional rulers were led by the state chairman,Council of Obas and Olugbo of Ugbo,Oba Frederick Akinruntan President Buhari praised Akeredolu for all the projects he was able to put in place within three years in office. ￼He gave the commendation in Ore, Odigbo local government area of the state while commissioning the Linyi industrial hub. Buhari described Akeredolu’s achievements as remarkable, affirming that the hub would bring positive impact on the people of the state. According to him, Akeredolu sold the idea to him when it was conceived, and expressed happiness that, through hardwork, dedication and commitment, the idea has become a reality. ￼The President commended investors for choosing Ondo state and assured of necessary support to further encourage their stay in Nigeria. He also lauded the host community for the cooperation and support accorded the investors and appealed to them to sustain the relationship, while affirming that the project would create jobs for the teeming youths and improve the economic development of the state The flyover interchange according to President Buhari would boost economic activities in the state,ease traffic congestion as well as reduce accidents often experienced on major roads. Buhari said the federal government would meet its obligations to the state on the construction of this interchange flyover in due course. He recalled that the redesigning and construction of the road to accommodate the flyover was long overdue as a result of the growing population of Ore. While welcoming the President to the state, Akeredolu had described the state as the hidden treasure of Nigeria. ￼Akeredolu, who was explained the process that led to the establishment of the industrial hub to the President Buhari, said Ondo state had so many hidden treasures like Bitumen, Coastline among others that are capable to bring more investors to the country. He thanked the President for honouring the state with his presence. Akeredolu described Buhari as an epitome of integrity for taking time out of his busy schedules to come and commission the projects. ￼He noted that he was fulfilled seeing his dream of industrialising Ondo state coming to pass. The President commissioned both the industrial hub, and also the Ore flyover bridge for the use of the people. The Business Development Partner Kelvin Zhu appreciated the state and Akeredolu for their industrial drive,stressing that the relationship will last longer for economic development of the state. He also commended the host community for supporting them.