 External members of the Governing Council of the Federal University, Oye-Ekiti (FUOYE), have passed a vote of confidence on the management of the university led by the Vice Chancellor, Prof Kayode Soremekun. The members led by Sabo Inua, an engineer, described the infrastructure growth and expansion as ‘unprecedented’ when compared with eight other universities established alongside FUOYE in 2011. The media tour was part of the winding down of the outgoing members of the Governing Council which tenure ends this month. The team which also included Alhaji Jibrin Ibrahim and Alhaji Alkali Kolo, addressed the media following an exhaustive tour of projects embarked upon under Soremekun since February 2016. Addressing CAMPUSLIFE at the institution’s Mass Communication Studio’s (comprising FUOYE Radio and Television Studios), Inua said: “What you have here is like what we have in Bayero University Kano and Express FM stations even though the latter is a commercial radio station.  I am highly impressed.” CAMPUSLIFE learned that FUOYE Radio/Television stations at present is being test run on the university community and its environs, and awaiting licensing by the regulatory body-National Communications Commission (NCC). Alhaji Jubrin said: “We are here to confirm the level of development and achievement in FUOYE. We are very satisfied. We can confirm that FUOYE is working”. Jubrin equally praised FUOYE management’s accountability which he attributed to latter’s strings of achievements within a short time and amid lean resources.  Jubrin implored the management team not to rest on its oars in its effort to bridge the infrastructure gap in the institution. He called on the university community to join hands with the management to consolidate on its achievements. In his response, Soremekun attributed the over 46 projects visited to the ‘culture of excellence’ which he said is ‘synonymous with my person’. He said: “Most of the facilities visited were started and completed by his administration. Majority of them are located in Phase 3 which was a forest when we got here in 2016.” He advised workers to learn to be patient and cooperate more with authority. “Rome was not built in a day. They (students and workers) should learn to make judicious use of the facilities,” Soremekun added. He said by the time the present admission process is concluded, FUOYE would have been hitting the 20,000 student mark. This, Soremekun noted, meant more infrastructure is needed to accommodate the teeming student population. “Surely in the next five years, FUOYE will be looking more like OAU (Obafemi Awolowo University), and UNILAG (University of Lagos) in terms of infrastructure. The media tour had in attendance Soremekun’s deputies: Prof A. S  Fasina (Administration) and Prof Olusola Ojo (Academic); the Librarian, Dr Gboyega Adio, and some other internal members of council such as Prof Adejuyigbe Samuel and Prof Sola  Omotola. Others who participated in the tour were Dean Faculty of Science Prof Olaide Lawal; Director of Physical Planning Mr. Adebowale Ayodele; Deputy Director, Corporate Services Mr. Ademuyiwa Adeyinka; among others. Thereafter the team inspected and rode through the ongoing FUOYE new main access road under construction. At its Ikole Campus, the team inspected new ultramodern Faculties of Agriculture building; and the Faculty of Engineering and central laboratory building.