Kehinde OLULEYE HARDLY will you turn the pages of any of our major newspapers without running across the names of these power females in the course of a week. We are talking about the likes of Mo Abudu,  Uju Ifejika , Folorunsho Alakija, Chantelle Abdul, Bola Shagaya, Stella Okoli,  Shade Okoya, Toyin Sanni, Ibukun Awosika, Tara Fela-Durotoye, Nike Ogunlesi, Dr Ola Orekunrin and a host of others. Beautiful, bold and brainy, these female Chief Executive Officers do not only dominate their turfs in a world where men rule the roost, they also inspire millions of men and women with their outstanding accomplishments, bold decisions, unique sense of style, gravitas and elegance. They have legions of fans within Nigeria and all over the world. Each time they grace events, everything about them is noted as sources of fashion, fad and style inspiration by thousands of women. This group of women do not merely bask in the glow of their career accomplishments; they are powerful speakers, able leaders and successful businesspersons, at a time when the Chief Executive Officer position appears to be dominated by men.  Mosunmola Abudu, popularly known as Mo Abudu, is a Nigerian media mogul, media personality, philanthropist, who has been described by Forbes as Africa’s most successful media woman. Mo founded EbonyLife TV, a network airing in more than 49 countries across Africa, as well as in the UK and the Caribbean in 2006. EbonyLife TV has offices in Lagos, Abuja and the Tinapa Resort, Calabar, Cross River State. She is a class of her own fashion-wise. Uju Ifejika Catherine Uju Ifejika is a Nigerian lawyer and Chairperson/CEO of Brittania-U Nigeria Limited (BUNL), an indigenous petroleum company for upstream exploration and production, and Brittania-U Ghana Limited (BUGL). She has received both national and international awards for best practices in business leadership. She is believed to be one of the most powerful women in oil and gas industry in Africa and one of the richest women in Africa. She is a leader in the fashion- dictating women population.  Chantelle Abdul, a fashion pace-setter, is the Managing Director and chief executive of Mojec International Limited, a conglomerate with subsidiaries in the energy, real estate, retail and power sector with operations across Africa and Asia. The company’s power sector has a meter assembly facility, which produces indigenous smart pre-paid meters, the first of its kind in the country. Stella Chinyelu Okoli is a Nigerian pharmacist, entrepreneur, founder and chief executive officer of Emzor Pharmaceutical, a pharmaceutical manufacturing company. Prior to the establishment of Emzor Pharmaceutical, Stella had worked in several pharmaceutical firms, including Middlesex Hospital, London, Boots the Chemists Limited and Pharma-Deko. In January 1977, Stella started Emzor Pharmaceutical with the initial name, Emzor Chemists Limited as a small pharmacy retail shop in Somolu, Lagos State. Emzor Pharmaceutical has since become one of the leading pharmaceutical companies in Nigeria with over 50 products since its incorporation in 1984. She is one of the most stylish women in the country.  Folorunsho Alakija is a renowned and well respected Nigerian entrepreneurial woman. She is involved in the fashion, oil, real estate and printing sectors. She is the group managing director of The Rose of Sharon Group, which consists of The Rose of Sharon Prints & Promotions Limited, Digital Reality Prints Limited and the executive vice-chairman of Famfa Oil Limited. She also has a majority stake in DaySpring Property Development company.  A powerful dresser, Alakija is ranked by Forbes as the richest woman in Nigeria with an estimated net worth of $1 billion. As of 2015, she is listed as the second most powerful woman in Africa after Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala and the 87th most powerful woman in the world by Forbes. Hajia Bola Shagaya is a Nigerian businesswoman and the managing director of Practoil Limited, one of the largest importers and distributors of base oil in Nigeria, serving local lubricant blending plants. Her businesses also include huge investments in real estate, spanning across major cities in the country with over 300 employees. She started her career with the audit department of the Central Bank of Nigeria before venturing into commercial activities. An eye turner even at her age and a highly fashionable woman, her business experience started with the importation and distribution of photographic materials and she introduced the Konica brand of photographic materials into the Nigerian market and West Africa.  Founder and CEO of the Emerging Africa Capital Group, Toyin Sanni is a lawyer, chartered secretary, stockbroker and author with over 30 years’ experience in senior management positions in investor services, law and finance. Prior to her appointment as the Group CEO of United Capital, highly fashionable Toyin Sanni was CEO, United Capital Trustees Ltd (formerly known as UBA Trustees Limited), a United Capital subsidiary and market leader in the Trustees business. With a background in securities law and extensive experience in corporate finance, trusts & asset management, she leverages networks and relationships across markets & her extensive experience working on leading transactions to achieve development goals. Nigerian beauty entrepreneur and lawyer, Tara Fela-Durotoye is the founder and CEO of House of Tara International and creator of the Tara Orekelewa Beauty range, Inspired Perfume and the H.I.P Beauty range. Tara is a pioneer in the bridal makeup profession in Nigeria, she launched the first bridal directory in 1999, set up international standard makeup studios and established the first makeup school in Nigeria. Nike Ogunlesi is the proud founder and creative director of Ruff ‘n’ Tumble-one of the best manufacturers of children’s clothing in Nigeria. Nike is a Nigerian fashion entrepreneur, a leading designer, manufacturer and retailer of designer children’s clothing. She is a force to reckon with in children’s fashion industry in West Africa Sade Okoya, a fashion pace-setter and wife of billionaire industrialist, Chief RASAQ Okiya, is the Chief Executive Officer of manufacturing giant, Eleganza Industrial City Limited, which produces various sizes and designs of plastic chairs, luggage boxes, coolers, baby diapers, ladies’ sanitary products, hair threads, stainless water tank, shoes etc. Eleganza group of companies has a market reach spanning Western Africa.  Olamide Orekunrin is a British-Nigerian medical doctor, founder and managing director of Flying Doctors Nigeria, a leading air ambulance service and charity based in Lagos, Nigeria. After graduation, Olamide worked for a short period of time in the National Health Service, United Kingdom. As a helicopter pilot with specialised training in aviation medicine, she pioneered the first air operated emergency medical services in Lagos, Nigeria; Flying Doctors Nigeria Ltd. Ola, a fashion icon, was motivated to start the charity after experiencing the loss of her sister under difficult circumstances and to improve medical services in Nigeria she successfully established Flying Doctors in Lagos in 2007.