 The Reformed Peoples Democratic Party (r-PDP) in Adamawa State will begin registration of members today, it was learnt yesterday. Interim Chairman Hammajoda Girei, at a news conference, said most members of the mainstream PDP would register with the faction because they have lost faith in the party. “Ninety per cent of the PDP members will register with us, having lost hope in the Fintiri-led administration’s capacity to treat them just,” he said. The r-PDP, which was first mooted last year by a former governorship aspirant, Umar Ardo, took a number of steps over the months, culminating into the inauguration of interim executive committees, with Girei as interim chairman. Girei, who addressed reporters at the state office in Yola, said the splinter group was prompted by ‘irredeemable disposition’ of the PDP leadership towards addressing complaints of injustice despite repeated appeals by affected persons. According to him, the party is turning into a behemoth which thrives by trampling on all constitutional provisions. “Concerned members have to make sacrifices to bail the party from its descent into ineluctable perdition,” he said, adding that the r-PDP was grateful to Ardo, whom he described as the leading light He thanked Senator Ishaku Abbo (Adamawa North) for identifying with the faction. Abbo,  who pledged his loyalty to the faction, said an individual has hijacked the party’s affairs to his political advantage. The senator, who called on the national leadership to intervene, said the rPDP is on the right track to improve democracy. The senator, while answering questions on a radio program in Yola, stressed that the party belongs to members as a whole and not one person who used it to achieve political position. He said: “The fact is that a political party like ours should belong to everyone, especially loyal members, as they all contributed in its making from the scratch.” But chairman of the main party Tahir Shehu said r-PDP was on its own and its promoters do not deserve a response. 