For the gains of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) to be realised, the government must address the supply side constraints of lack of infrastructure, the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), has said. MAN President, Mansur Ahmed, also said policies and regulations must be made business-friendly in order to assist businesses to grow and ultimately, enhance competitiveness and boost the economies of Nigeria and other partnering African countries. Ahmed, who is also the Chairman of the Pan African Manufacturers Association (PAMA), the umbrella body of manufacturers in Africa, made this known yesterday at the “2020 MAN Annual Media Luncheon” held in Lagos. He said PAMA’s main objective was to bring African manufacturers together to jointly engage governments of the African continent to create a conducive and enabling environment for local businesses to thrive as the continent anticipates the take-off of AfCFTA from July this year. Ahmed, however, said that as the Association remains at the forefront for setting the pace for engagement with other African manufacturers, the Nigerian Government must also lead by example in ensuring that policies are industry-friendly as this is the only guarantee for a competitive intra-African trade. His words: “We cannot achieve competitiveness without the provision of infrastructure such as good road networks and electricity, not only within African countries, but also across the borders. “There is also the aspect of provision of soft infrastructure – like visa, tariffs, and foreign exchange – that will help ease the process of carrying out business transactions between countries.   We must address all these issues since the AfCFTA is not just about trade in goods, but also trade in services,” he said, adding that modern industry competitiveness depends to a great extent on provision of adequate and efficient infrastructure. AfCFTA seeks to create a continental trade bloc of 1.2 billion people, with a combined Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of about $3 trillion. The agreement also seeks to promote Africa’s regional integration and help increase intra-African trade by committing countries to liberalising services and trade and removing tariffs on 90 per cent of goods. Apart from its inherent capacity to promote economic growth and development, reduce poverty in the partnering countries, it was also expected to help expand and diversify trade and increase domestic and foreign investment. “From the availability of power and energy to transport and logistics, the role of infrastructure cannot be overemphasized in trade and economic development on the continent,” he said. For instance, while pointing out that transportation is vital to enhancing competitiveness in trade, he said due to poor infrastructure, it will cost a business owner in Nigeria more to transport goods from Lagos to Kano than it will cost a Chinese business owner to transport the same goods from China to Lagos. The MAN boss also said electricity is a vital input for manufacturing process to the extent that it constitutes up to 40 per cent of the cost of production. He, therefore, said increasing the tariff of this core input will have drastic negative effect on the Gross National Product (GNP), Gross Domestic Product (GDP), disposable income, consumption, consumer price index, employment, government revenue from corporate taxation etc.