By Olalekan Okusan  World basketball ruling body (FIBA) has confirmed Nigeria’s D’Tigress and 11 others  will know their group opponents when the draws  for the women basketball event of Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games  is held on March 21. According to FIBA, Nigeria remains the first African team to qualify both men and women teams for Olympic Games after D’Tigress picked their slot at the just concluded Olympic Qualifying Tournament (OQT) in Belgrade, Serbia. Meanwhile,  Nigeria’s Ezinne Kalu was named among the All-Star Five with double-figures in scoring in all three games of Group A. Kalu, who claimed the MVP at the 2019 Afrobasket Tournament in Senegal played a key role in Nigeria’s eventual qualification to Tokyo with 16.0 points and 4.3 assists having almost led Nigeria to a memorable triumph over USA on the final day.  It was Nigeria-born America’s Nneka Ogwumike that capped a fine FIBA Women’s Olympic Qualifying Tournament in Belgrade with the TISSOT MVP award from Group A. The American forward produced her best in a 24-point display on 82 percent shooting to go with 9 rebounds as USA crushed Mozambique in the second of their three wins. Ogwumike was joined by team-mate A’ja Wilson with the 23-year-old posting 12.7 points and 7.3 rebounds with back-to-back 16-point games in the two opening victories. Serbia’s Ana Dabovic represented the hosts amongst the All-Star Five with double-figures in scoring in all three games for an average of 12.0 points along with 4.0 assists and 2.0 steals for Serbia as they sealed their ticket to the Tokyo 2020 Olympics. There was also a spot for Leia Dongue to round out the lineup after standing out for Mozambique with 10.0 points, 5.3 rebounds and 2.3 assists.  At the OQT, history was made at the completion of the four FIBA Women’s Olympic Qualifying Tournaments, as Belgium and Puerto Rico, are set for their maiden Olympic appearances. The 12 teams – Australia, Belgium, Korea, Puerto Rico, Serbia and Spain, Canada, China, France, USA, Japan and Nigeria will be drawn into three groups of four teams each. The Group Phase played in a round robin format, with each team playing the other teams in the group once.