By Adekunle Yusuf  Living.ng, a non-governmental organisation, has partnered Leah Foundation to create more awareness about cancer. This joint initiative was done as part of activities to commemorate the World Cancer Day. The Project Manager of giving.ng, Mrs. Olapeju Ibekwe, during a briefing to mark World Cancer Day in Lagos, said the online platform decided to partner Leah Foundation to fight cancer because the disease has become a scourge that is killing Nigerians daily. “We are calling on every Nigerian to do something about how to roll back the cancer scourge by donating any amount of money through the platform. Donations received would be used to provide free screening for 5000 women in partnership with Leah Foundation.” She described giving.ng as a crowd-funding platform focused on raising funds with local and international partners to deal with various issues that are affecting the  society. The World Cancer Day, which was recently celebrated worldwide, is aimed at saving millions of people from preventable deaths yearly by raising awareness and education about cancer and pressing governments, organisations and individuals across the world to act against the disease. Corroborating Ibekwe, the Executive Director of Leah Foundation, Mr. Lanre Bello, said the foundation had been in the forefront of efforts to control and eradicate some types of cancer through vaccination. He said if serious efforts could be made, some cancer could be eradicated in about 20 years. “Our foundation has given opportunities to people to be screened but it is not sustainable because one single institution cannot do it alone and that is why we are partnering with giving.ng to help us raise funds to fight the scourge. Our goal is to detect cancer early in a bid to control or eliminate it,” he said.  Also, a Nollywood icon, Mrs Joke Silva, said she lend her voice to creating awareness about cancer because awareness is essential in controlling the scourge. “I am involved in the fight against the cancer scourge because in 2014 my younger sister, Olufunke Silva, was diagnosed with breast cancer stage 3 going to stage 4 and by February 12, 2019 she passed away. Our late mother also had a lump in one of her breasts, but cancer did not come back until she was 88 and she died at 89,” Silva said. She advised young people from  20 and above to go for regular check-ups because reports had shown that if the traces of cancer were detected early in a person, it could be effectively treated. She noted that if there is early detection, the cells could be sent into remission. Silva added that her aunt realised she had cancer while in her 20s, but she lived long because the cancer cells were detected early and she took action. Lamenting that Nigeria lacks proper equipment for screening cancer, the Nollywood icon urged Nigerians to help the cause by donating through the giving. ng platform in a bid to battle the cancer scourge.