The pioneer chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ondo State, Isaacs Kekemeke,  has joined the governorship race for the October 10 contest. He vowed to unseat Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu,who according to him,has done his best for the state. The former Commissioner for Works said he had the pedigree, antecedents and experience to transform the state and turn it into an eldorado for the benefits of its citizenry. Kekemeke, who is also a former Secretary to the State Government (SSG) under late Agagu’s administration, said he has another strategies completely different from that of Akeredolu to spread the dividends of democracy to all the doorsteps as against seclusive administration. At a media parley on Sunday in Akure, the state capital, the pioneer Chairman of National Examination Council (NECO) described himself as a grassroots politician that had served the state in different capacities for over two decades without sojourning outside the state for a moment. According to him, his decision to contest the election was borne out of his desire to serve the people. He debunked insinuations making the round that he was not a serious contender, denying his ambition was mainly to serve as Deputy Governor. Kekemeke,a lawyer, declared that he was prepared to take over the reins of government from Governor Akeredolu, adding that he has no plan to serve as Deputy Governor to either Akeredolu or any other person. Kekemeke, who built the party to take over power in 2016, said: ” I laboured more than any other individual to build this party during trenches and together with some stakeholders we were able to develop the party. I am not a small person in politics and I have all it takes to lead the state. “I had openly told the incumbent Deputy Governor, Agboola Ajayi that I am not interested in his office and I mean it. I am interested in the office his boss (Akeredolu) is presently occupying and by the grace of God I shall get there.” Kekemeke said efforts were on by the leadership of the party at the national and state levels to reconcile all aggrieved members of the party. Already, the APC in Ondo State is polarised into two factions with Akeredolu leading a faction while a former Deputy Governor, Alli Olanusi leads Unity Forum However, Kekemeke said the national leadership of the party through its reconciliatory committee headed by former Osun State Governor, Chief Bisi Akande will work for the unity of the party in the state before the governorship poll. The former commissioner is presently the Secretary of the Advisory Council,while Chief Pius Akinyelure is to serve as its chairman with the aim of harmonising the party ahead of the primary and election proper on October 10. He said: “I don’t belong to any faction in the party, my conviction is to have a formidable APC like it was in 2015 when we won 54 percent votes for President Muhammadu Buhari even while still in opposition”. Kekemeke appealed to all estranged or aggrieved members in the state to forget the past and present,but should work for the future of the party especially ahead of the crucial forth comin governorship election. The former chairman boasted that APC is the only party to beat in the state, saying emphatically that no other political party in Ondo state except the ruling APC.