Senators were in a solemn mood on Wednesday. They regretted the death of the good ones among the lawmakers in the Upper Chamber. The senators were emotional as they paid tributes to their late colleague, Senator Ignatius Datong Longjan (Plateau South). It was a valedictory session for the deceased, which followed a motion to suspend plenary by the Senate Leader Yahaya Abdullahi (Kebbi North). Longjan died on Tuesday, February 10, 2010, while undergoing treatment at the Turkish Hospital in Abuja, after a protracted illness. His death occurred barely two months after the demise of Senator Benjamin Uwajumogu, who represented Imo North. He was 51. Longjan’s immediate family members, including his wife, children and a high-powered delegation from Plateau State, were ushered into the chamber to witness the session. The Plateau delegation was led by House of Representatives Deputy Speaker Ahmed Idris Wase. Plateau State Deputy Governor, Prof. Soni Tyoden and former Governor Jonah Jang were also in the state delegation. Senate Minority Leader Enyinnaya Abaribe said it appeared that death was targeting good senators in the chamber. He said: “Yet again, we are losing another good man. A few days ago, we were here doing this same thing, a valedictory for one of our colleagues. “The question we always ask is: why are we losing the good ones? All the wicked people in this country don’t die. It is the good ones that go. And so, today, we commiserate with the wife and children and the people that he represented; of course, the diplomatic community, from where he came, and Nigerians in general.” Ibikunle Amosun (Ogun Central) said good men don’t actually die. “I came in 2003 and left in 2007. Of course, we had sad incidences like this, twice, until when we had that accident that three of our colleagues died – Sokoto senators. “But between that time and now, 21 of us have gone. How did I know? At the end of every year, I will send my office diary to them. “When I came, I asked and they said 21. So, between 2007 and 2020, 21 of us have answered the call of the Almighty. It tells us how ephemeral this life is. We pray that we do not keep experiencing this. “I have a different view about good men dying early. I think God himself knows: when good men die, they don’t (actually) die. They will be remembered in the life of those that were left behind. And the bad ones: He leaves them to live. Eventually, when they die, nobody remembers them. When they do, they will be remembered for the wrong reasons.” Senate President Ahmad Lawan said Longjan’s life was full of lessons worthy of emulation by all. Lawan said: “Life is what we make of it. All of us who spoke about our late colleague, spoke very glowingly of who he was. That was because he was who he was. He was everything and yet he acted that he was nobody. “But it is established today that his actions and humility did not in any way place him in any disadvantage as far as the human characterisation is concerned. “There could be very boisterous, vociferous and noisy people in life, but when they die, the commentaries will be sad. “So, there is also a lesson for us here. Just like most of our colleagues said, what do we want to be remembered for? We all want to be remembered for being good.” Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege described the late Longjan as a very humble and loyal personality during his lifetime. Deputy Minority Leader Emmanuel Bwacha (Taraba South) said Longjan’s life was an open lesson. Deputy Chief Whip Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi (Niger North) said the late senator may have gone, but he left a good name behind. Philip Aduda (FCT) said: “At 75, I can say this is a celebration of life. He could have lived more, but because God loved him. He took him home.” Senator Oluremi Tinubu (Lagos Central) said the late Longjan was being celebrated rather than mourned because of the impactful life he led. “I rise to celebrate one of the greats in Nigeria. It was a privilege to have sat with him in this chamber. “I pay my respect to his wife, children, the Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives as well as the Deputy Speaker of the Plateau State House of Assembly. “Senator Longjan was a man of honour and deep respect. From his countenance, I could see a man of deep respect,” she said. To Itsifanus Gyang (Plateau North), Longjan was a father and mentor. Senator Bala Ibn Na’Allah said the late senator was a true human being.