Pension complaints and solutions  MABAWONKU: My name is Mabawonku, a pensioner with federal share. I retired with NERDC in 1993 as assistant chief research officer. My gratuity and six months’arrears pension have not been paid after several correspondence and physical appearances to PTAD. I did verification with PENCOM in 2011 and PTAD in Lagos in last April. The Lagos State share has been paid where I retired in 2010 as a director. But for PTAD, promises that have not been fulfilled were given. Please help me.  PTAD: The pensioner is to provide a copy of his pensioner’s verification acknowledgement slip to enable us investigate and follow up on his complaints. MRS. ADETUTU: You asked for my mother’s phone number, which I sent before July 17, last year. But there is a mistake in the write up. They wrote that she was given monthly pension between 2005 and 2010. She was not paid. Which is why sh e is asking for  the arrears. PTAD: The pensioner was contacted on her mobile phone number and informed to provide a copy of her pensioner’s verification acknowledgement slip through the complaintsemail (complaints@ptad.gov.ng). This will enable us investigate and follow up her complaint.  OWOEYE: This is for someone very close to me. Please read this and any action taken will be appreciated: I retired as an Assistant Director of Education (GL 15) in December 1996, having served the government for 35 years. My gratuities were paid in 1998, when the value of the money had fallen more than 100 per cent. I started drawing my pensions in 2000. I am a federal pensioner, with no state share. Till date, I have not been allowed to enjoy any pension increases approved since 2000. In April 2009, my pensions were harmonised to enable me enjoy the 142 per cent increment approved in 2000. The voucher was prepared. This included the arrears accruing from  2000. That month, I was paid only the harmonised monthly amount. The arrears were not paid and have still not been paid. Later, this harmonised amount was reduced by 50 per cent for no reason. Despite series of verification and completion of complaints forms, no action has been taken on my case. However, the pension authorities keep on telling the public that they have been paying pension arrears and returning savings from discovery of ghost pensioners to government coffers. I submitted a letter of complaint to the Akure Office of the Public Complaints Office in April 2014, but I am not sure the letter left the office, although they charged me for courier. I retired from the Federal Civil Service at 56. I am 76 and I am still being denied my entitlements by fellow compatriots since  2000. This complaint and relevant documents, including my bank statement of accounts are in my records with PTAD, as were with those who handed over to them. Why is it that nobody is doing or saying anything about my case for 16 years? Does the younger generation of Nigerians who find themselves in critical positions in our public service, know that robbing old people of their entitlements or unconscionably delaying the releases of genuine claims for over a decade, they are incurring God’s wrath and judgments on themselves? It has been alleged that some highly placed managers of federal pensions have diverted billions of naira meant for vulnerable old retirees to personal accounts.  Must all these old people die without enjoying their benefits while those who are responsible for their plights continue to enjoy their loot with their families and friends? This administration that is committed to change and correcting previous ills, needs God-fearing people who are selfless, honest, public spirited and free from covetousness to administer pensions. I thank you, Omobola, for your interest in the welfare of the elderly.  PTAD: The pensioner is to provide a copy of his verification acknowledgement slip so that proper investigation and follow up can be done on his complaint.  MAKAMA: Dear Omobola, my name is Makama, a retiree from NARICT, Zaria with a pension verification number. My complaint is the non-payment of my last November pension salary and 33 per cent arrears which was recently paid. I kindly request for your intervention for the release of the above- mentioned cash.  PTAD: The pensioner is to provide a copy of his pensioner’s verification acknowledgement slip, BVN and bank statement from last October. This will enable us do a proper investigations and follow up on his complaints.  ZAKARI: I am Zakari from Niger State, the next-of-kin with an account number who is still begging you and your organisation to reintroduce my case to PTAD management for their inability to pay my father’s death benefit since my verification in October 2017. They were able to pay NITEL staff and 500 next-of-kin who had their verification in February 2018, three months after our verification. Please, you and your organisation are the last hope of the common man in this country. You are also the saviour of the common man when it comes to pension matter in this country. Please help me through this hardship. It is unbearable.  PTAD: The NOK is advised to be patient because CSPD is working to resolve the complaints and pay all qualified NOK. However, he is advised to provide a copy of his verification acknowledgement slip to enable us follow up his complaint. Emmanuel: I am a state pensioner with federal share. My documents were scanned last August 14. My complaint is the non-payment since December 2006 at N12,927.70 for  monthly. Total arrears unpaid is N471,025.40  PTAD: The pensioner is to provide a copy of his verification acknowledgement slip and bank statement from 2000 (When he retired) to date so that a proper investigation and follow up can be done.