 THOUGH the much hyped Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) is still in the front burner, there is no hope that it will materialise anytime soon. However if the optimism of the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva is anything to go by, he has expressed hope that the Bill, which is pending before the National Assembly will be passed before May 2020. Sylva disclosed this while briefing newsmen in Abuja recently According to him, the team working on the PIB was at the final stage of harmonisation of all the existing versions from 2000 to date (2009, 2012, and 2018) with consideration to the concerns raised by industry players. This, he said would help to create an enabling environment for investors as well as appropriate government take in all the oil and gas value chain. He said that the PIB would be passed as a single bill but would likely accommodate two regulators for the sector. The PIB was unbundled into three parts: Petroleum Industry Governance Bill (PIGB), Administration & Host Communities Bill and Petroleum Industry Fiscal Bill. “Counting on the current harmony between the Executive and Legislative arms of Government, we are optimistic that both the Petroleum Industry Governance, Administration and Host Communities Bill on one hand and Petroleum Industry Fiscal Bill on the other will be passed within the first anniversary of this administration, “In fact, we are hoping that it will be passed before May,’’ he said. It would be recalled that President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, said on September 2019 that the upper legislative chamber would ensure the full passage of the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) before the end of 2020. He stressed that the Senate expects the total cooperation of the executive in the bid to push the PIB through the legislative hurdle. Lawan said, “Our petroleum industry is almost stagnant and for long needing profound reform. Our oil and gas-related committees are therefore expected to work hard to take the lead in our determination to reform this vital sector. It is the desire, indeed the design of this Senate that, the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) is passed before the end of 2020.” Implications of further delay The absence of an appropriate legal framework has been a major undoing of the Nigerian economy.  The growth of the petroleum sector has no doubt suffered untold stagnancy in the area of its growth, while foreign intended investors are skeptical towards investing in the sector with the current form of the existing regulation in the sector. The country has not been able to unlock huge investments, revenues and thousands of quality job opportunities for this reason. It could be recalled that the PIB was first introduced to the floor of National Assembly in 2003, over 16 years ago. Ironically, since then, the bill has undergone several reviews and elicited diverse sentiments among stakeholders making it one of the most contentious bills in recent times. According to an economic analyst who also doubles as the Director General of Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, LCCI, Dr. Muda Yusuf, Nigeria sector cannot afford any further delay in the presentation and passage of the Petroleum Industry Bill. Yusuf said, “As a way of dealing with these challenges, the PIB was divided into four different segments: the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill (PIGB), Petroleum Industry Fiscal Bill (PIFB), Petroleum Industry Admiration Bill (PIAB) and Petroleum Host & Impacted Communities Development Bill (PAICDB). Out of the four bills, only the PIGB was passed by the 8th National Assembly. “The importance of passing the PIB is underscored by the fact that the oil and gas industry is very strategic to the economy of Nigeria. The industry currently accounts for about 80 percent of the government revenue and about 95 percent of foreign exchange earnings. Today, that revenue is facing a serious risk of shortfall from illegal bunkering, declining demand from buyers, stalled investments in the oil and gas sector and emerging technology in renewable energy.” The LLCI DG noted that he is of the view that the government should not be oblivious of the rapidly evolving nature of the dynamics in the global oil and gas industry, expressing concern in the face of rapidly evolving competition in the global oil and gas market, and the increasing challenges such as insecurity and uncertain investment climate. He said that the policy uncertainty around the oil and gas sector continues to undermine the confidence of investors in the sector, especially the non-nationals. “It is of interest to note that several oil producing and service companies have left the country on account of these challenges,” pointed out. “Recent feedback from operators in the oil and gas industry shows the following concerns: The Niger Delta region remains a dangerous place to operate for oil companies and this adds to operating cost. Special security arrangements such as provision of convoys, security support and flight operations currently add around 12 percent per annum to Joint Venture (JV) costs. “Government finds it difficult to meet its own share of Joint Venture (JV) funding obligations.  This seriously undermines growth in the onshore and shallow water – especially in the country’s gas sector.  It takes an unduly long time to secure approvals for contracts compared to other oil producing countries. “The above concerns highlight the need for a clear understanding of the contentious issues surrounding previous version of the bill and build stakeholders consensus. The PIB is very critical for Nigeria and we cannot afford to get it wrong or delay its passage any further,” Yusuf maintained. Selling issues Chief Christopher Porbeni, Managing Director of Pinax Nigeria Limited, a petroleum trading company in Lagos, who spoke to our correspondent observed that it was difficult to find buyers for Nigerian crude due to increased production levels from the United States of America, who had overtaken Saudi Arabia as the world’s largest crude oil producer with 10.26 million barrels per day in February 2019. “Part of the problem is that while the US used to be Nigeria’s top crude oil destination, recent developments have seen the country drop to seventh place with 369,000 bpd exports as at February 18, 2018. It is also important to point out that India, currently the biggest buyer of Nigerian crude has also started buying crude from the US as it looks to diversify its sources of the commodity,” he said. Answer to the clarion call Clearing some of the uncertainties and questions, President Muhammadu Buhari, November 2019, assented to the Deep Offshore and Inland Basin Production Sharing Contract (Amendment) Act, 2019 (“the Amendment Act”) following its passage by the National Assembly in October 2019. DOIBPSCA defines the PSC as “any agreement or arrangements made between the Corporation or the holder and any other petroleum exploration and production company or companies for the purpose of exploration and production of oil in the Deep Offshore and Inland Basin.” By implication, there could be PSCs executed solely between oil companies without the NNPC’s involvement. The mandatory review every year should, however, not apply to such PSCs; though it is more likely that government will exercise its back-in right in such mining leases in the event of a significant commercial discovery. Also, the Amendment Act introduces a fine of at least ¦ 500 million for non-compliance with any obligation imposed by the provision of the Act, or imprisonment for a period not less than five years, or both, upon conviction by a competent court of law. While these penalties will apply to the Act in general, they seem to have been introduced to compel the Minister of Petroleum Resources and the NNPC to initiate a review of the PSC every eight years, as stipulated in Section 16(A) of the Amendment Act. The new royalty regime specifies a baseline royalty of 10 percent for crude oil and condensates produced in the deep offshore (greater than 200 meter water depth) and 7.5 percent for the Frontier and Inland Basin. In addition to the baseline royalty, a royalty based on the applicable price of crude oil, condensate and natural gas will apply, but only when the price exceeds $20 per barrel. Lending his voice, Wole Obayomi, an analyst with KPMG that the general opinion is that the key objective of the Amendment Act is to maximise government take from PSCs in the face of changing prices of oil and gas but a lot may still not augur well for the sector. Realities on ground According to analysts, investment in the deep offshore may be adversely affected based on the current decline in the flow of investment into the country and the oil industry in particular. As at last October, there were only 26 active rigs in Nigeria. Out of these rigs, only one deep water rig is currently carrying on work over activities, while three other rigs that are in between locations or in pre-drill mode. Giving fresh insights on the poor prospect of Nigeria’s oil wealth, Nick Branson and Ed Hobey-Hamsher, in a joint article titled, ‘The diverging fortunes of Africa’s crude kings’ published in Petroleum Economist recently, observed that profound differences in governance style will impact the speed and development of future energy projects across Angola and Nigeria. According to the duo, successive years without final investment decisions (FIDs) left sub-Saharan Africa’s top two oil producers confronting maturing fields and declining production. “In Nigeria, president Muhammadu Buhari has done little to rekindle investment since assuming office in 2015operators now face another three years of his slow-moving administration. By contrast, Angola’s head of state, Joao Lourenco, was quick to enlist the support of oil majors after assuming power in September 2017. The countries’ trajectories will continue to diverge in 2020 as Lourenco’s reforms reap rewards and Buhari continues to dither.” Only five new deepwater licenses have been awarded in Nigeria in the last decade. In contrast, Angola launched the first of six annual licensing rounds in October 2019. Investment opportunities in the Kwanza and Namibe basins will enable Angola to attract new entrants, hot on the heels of Maurel & Prom, now backed by Indonesia’s Pertamina, which entered in 2018. Oil Producers Trade Section (OPTS) a private industry group under the umbrella of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), said in the long term, investors would not invest in the deepwater projects. Given the animosity over the non-passage of the PIGB, the received wisdom out there is that the prolonged delay would continue to have rippled negative effect on the nation’s oil and gas sector and by extension the economy. Pray, how certain is the realisation of the PIGB? Time will tell. 