The Nigerian Air Force has just added over two thousand trained personnel to its numerical strength. OKODILI NDIDI reports that with the new addition, NAF appears set to confront security challenges headlong. With additional 2,079 fresh recruits, the Nigerian Air Force has gotten a major fillip to its growing capacity to carry out its constitutional responsibility of national security. It is believed that this number will boost its ability to effectively tackle internal security challenges in the country, especially the war against insurgency where it has deplored air power to protect the country’s territorial integrity and sovereignty. Aside the geometric increase in its manpower base in the last five years, NAF has equally scaled up its airpower, through the acquisition of new platforms and reactivation of abandoned ones. It has also expanded its structures and enhanced its manpower training and capacity building, as well as research and development. According to the Director Public Relations and Information, Nigerian Air Force, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, the NAF has substantially bridged the gap in manpower disposition to meet the imperatives of its constitutional role of defending the territorial integrity of the country. After six months of vigorous military training at the Military Training Centre, Kaduna, the Basic Military Training Course (BMTC) 40/2019 set completed its programme on February 15, 2020. The Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, in his speech at the graduation ceremony, noted that the graduation of the set had lent credence to the efforts of the current NAF leadership to reposition the Service.  According to him, the ultimate target is the achievement of a highly professional force that is appropriately manned and adequately trained. This, he said, is to ensure that Nigeria’s territorial integrity and national sovereignty are not undermined or subverted by any individual or group of individuals. The CAS charged the airmen and airwomen to operate within the Rules of Engagement as enshrined in the Code of Conduct for the AFN personnel. They were reminded of the fact that they are joining the military at a time when the Armed Forces of Nigeria are involved in several internal security operations. Air Marshal Abubakar charged them to always respect and protect the innocent and law-abiding civilians that they are being paid to defend. The Air Chief emphasised that the new airmen were deliberately subjected to very rigorous training sessions were designed to equip them to face near-life scenarios when deployed for operations. The nation, he said, expects so much from them in the war against insurgency and other organised crimes. He further charged them to be resilient, tough and courageous in the performance of their duties at all times. “You must embrace the core values of integrity, service before self and excellence in all you do as essential ingredients of the high reputation which the NAF has earned over the years. “You must be innovative and take advantage of the opportunities that will be provided for you through specialisation training and re-training to become proficient in your chosen specialties.” He assured that NAF would continue to ensure their welfare by improving and providing relevant facilities within the bounds of available resources. Abubakar reiterated that as personnel of the NAF, the new airmen/airwomen must subject themselves to both military and civil laws in accordance with democratic tenets. The CAS challenged them to be vigilant and guard their utterances and conducts at all times and must not allow themselves to be used by subversive elements in the society to compromise national security. Charging them further, he said, “You are to project the good image of the NAF and resist the temptation to harass or engage in physical contacts against any member of the civil populace. Always remember that our duty as professionals is to protect all Nigerians irrespective of their ethnic, religious or political affiliations. Also, you must remain apolitical and not succumb to any inducement or actions that would cause disaffection amongst fellow members of the Armed Forces.” Abubakar further remarked that in the last four and half years, the Federal Government had facilitated an unprecedented increase in the number of aircraft available for NAF operations, bringing the aircraft serviceability rate of the Service from 35 percent in July 2015 to 82 percent as at February 2020. The achievement, he said, was brought about by intensive training and retraining of aircraft maintenance engineers and technicians who subsequently played a crucial role in the reactivation of platforms and maintenance of equipment. The Air Chief recalled that 22 platforms were inducted into the NAF since 2015 and that they have since been launched into operations. The CAS further disclosed that the NAF was in the process of acquiring the JF-17 Thunder aircraft and the Super Tucano (A-29) light attack aircraft. According to him, the JF-17 was due to arrive Nigeria in November 2020, while the A-29 Super Tucano aircraft were expected to be inducted into Service by 2022. He said this would further boost operational capabilities of the NAF by bridging the hitherto wide gap in platform disposition of the Service. “This unprecedented achievement needs to be sustained for the next 10 years if the NAF is to be adequately positioned to defend the territorial integrity of the nation,” he observed. Highlighting other bold steps which he said were taken by the current NAF leadership, the CAS noted that the Special Operations Command was established to address the challenges of asymmetric warfare. The offensive by the Boko Haram Terrorists, according to him, is an example of asymmetric warfare, saying that the NAF Regiment Specialty had been considerably expanded. Majority of its personnel he said, had been trained in Force Protection in Complex Air and Ground Environment (FPCAGE) for the enhanced protection of NAF bases and critical national assets. Abubakar expressed appreciation for the priority attention given to the needs of the Service by the Federal Government. This, he said, had enabled it record some laudable achievements. He assured President Muhammadu Buhari of the NAF’s unalloyed loyalty and total dedication to his administration’s commitment to a peaceful and prosperous Nigeria. The Air Chief said the Service would continue to make deliberate efforts to increase its infrastructure, which include the upgrading and provision of additional housing units, schools, hospitals, operational and recreational facilities. These efforts, he noted, had led to the provision of accommodation for over 6,500 families, thus enhancing the welfare of personnel, which he said, has reflected in the quality of their outputs. He acknowledged the support of the National Assembly, especially the chairmen and members of the NAF committee of the two chambers. Highlight of the event was a silent drill demonstration, which was executed with precision, by the passing out recruits to the delight of invited guests. The ceremony also featured the presentation of awards to the three best graduating recruits. The award recipients were Aircraftman Muhammed Abdulmutalib, Aircraftwoman Abisola Alade and Aircraftman Uwem Essien, who won the CAS, AOC GTC and Commandant’s Awards, respectively, for emerging first, second and third in that order. The ceremony witnessed a large turnout of dignitaries, including the representative of the Executive Governor of Kaduna State, chairmen of the NAF committee in the National Assembly, the Chief of Defence Intelligence; representative of the Emir of Zaria, serving and retired senior officers as well as families and friends of the newly enlisted airmen and airwomen.