  YOU were in the Eight Senate and now the Majority Leader of the 9th Senate. What are the breakthroughs if any and what are the challenges in the last six months of the 9th Senate? After the experiences we had in the 8th Senate, we saw that the most important thing to do in this particular 9th Senate is to sit down, unite the Senate and to make sure that the Senate as an institution serves the Nigerian people. We believe that irrespective of the party platform, the Senate as an institution has certain responsibilities to the Nigerian people. Now, there are some rather unfortunate misunderstandings by a lot of people, some of them enlightened and some of them quite genuinely misled by what have been happening. They believe that the only role the National Assembly has under the Constitution is to check the executive. No. The issue really is that while the National Assembly is checking the Executive, it is also a partner in governance because when you look at the whole concept of separation of powers, there is no clear line that says that those powers are distinctly separated. What it does is to separate functions. Even those functions that we claim to be separated are not exactly separated because the executive functions of appointments into certain offices will require legislative intervention. That is why the President cannot appoint ministers or some key functionaries in his government without seeking the National Assembly’s approval of such appointments and to see whether these people are qualified to be in office. Also when we make laws, we don’t make laws exclusively and put it down to the nation. When we make any law, we take it to the executive to sign it into law. When you look at even the judiciary, they are also a partner in this but in judicial appointments; the nominations are done by the National Judicial Council and passed to the President for approval. If the President does not like the appointments he would withhold approval and then nothing happens unless he is put under public pressure. Now it is the legislature that is influencing the judiciary and when you make laws, you are also going to get the buy-in of our judges. So the main tenets of our democratic system is that it is a system where there is a functional distribution of power but for the nation and for the people to benefit from democracy, there must be checks, balances and cooperation. So it is not in the public interest for these institutions to always be at loggerheads particularly at our level of development. In the Senate today, one Senator pointed out that it is during times of crisis, particularly now we are in security crisis, you cannot afford for the government to be fighting itself because if we fight the executive, it means we withhold all the money that go to the government and the entire machinery of government will collapse. And when it collapses, what is the benefit? Are we going to come back to the people and say yes, we have brought the government down? So, what we are saying is that we are working on the principle that the Senate as an institution has to work. People will call us rubber stamp, rubber stamp what? What we do is that when the executive brings something that is not correct, we don’t have to come and announce it on the floor of the Senate. We will call the people and tell them that what you have brought cannot pass in Senate or the National Assembly. If you want it to pass, this is how you should do it because we have responsibility also for the welfare and security of Nigerians. There is a functional differentiation, they execute the laws, we make the laws and the judiciary adjudicates. But when you look at the functions that the three institutions have to do, if there is a conflict between the legislature and the executive, it is the judiciary that comes in to resolve them and vice versa. So the two have to cooperate but when that cooperation breaks down then you have a problem. That is why you have sub-optimal budget implementation all the time. We do oversight functions. Oversight functions are not for the executive; they are legislative functions. We want to look at where the monies that have been voted are being used. Are you doing what we asked you to do with the money? We don’t want people to be thinking something else. If you want, check whether we are doing our work, check whether we are not doing what you think we are supposed to do. What are the things that have come out of the National Assembly? So since we came in, what we did is to try to work with all the senators irrespective of their political parties and do justice to everybody. We treat each other with respect and we take each other into confidence. When Senators come in we don’t look whether they are APC or PDP. When I became Majority Leader, I stood up in front of all the Senators and said for me, anybody who passes through that door is a Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria irrespective of the political platform that brings him here. The issue is the work of the Senate in relation to the mandate that the Nigerian people gave each Senator so that we can be able to work for Nigerians. A lot of the issues that confront this country are not partisan issues. Even if it is PDP that is in charge of Nigeria today, the way you have insecurity, the way you have the economy and revenue profile will be the same. The money for the government does not come from heaven. It is something that you create here. So if the government does not have the resources to run the government, whether it is PDP or APC, it is the same thing. If we have the same security and economic challenges, if we can come together and look at this country as a nation, and look at the value of our people so be it. That was what we heard; that Senators did not see the Bill before it passed second reading. That is false. Everybody had a copy of that Bill. But some senators raised objections. Senator Betty Apiafi did. She said they did not have copies of the Bill. Those who didn’t, they were not in their offices. Because we told them that we are going to first reading but we are going to deposit the Bill in their offices. Of course Betty Apiafi raised an objection; at that time the Bills were already taken to their offices and because some of them were taken to the offices not many of them were on the floor for distribution to Senators at that time. And also because of the way the Senate operates, we are still trying to computerise the Senate. We are still operating analog system. Now if we digitalise the operations of the Senate we can just send all these kinds of documents into the handsets of Senators and they will be able to see all these things. But that will cost money and that will also cause a lot of programme disorder. But we have started this year. We have now started to look at the Electoral Act very early. If we can amend it and pass it before the end of this year 2020, we still have year 2021 and 2022 and by mid-2022, we will start the process for the 2023 elections under a new Act and we will have no problem and the whole clamour of political positioning by political parties will not be there. Because it also affects the veracity and integrity of the Act itself but if we are making a provision in the new Act and one party or the other sees that the provision is going to affect one candidate or the other, they will blow the whistle and then we will start fighting. But if we had started early and we get all the stakeholders – the political parties, INEC and Nigerians who are interested in the sanctity of our electoral processes, legislators and everybody on board and there is time enough for the entire Act to be dissected and if we are going for electronic voting, so be it. They can now empower INEC to use electronic voting for the elections. Maybe Nigerians are not at home with the notion that the Senate is working to create the harmony needed to run the affairs of the country Not just the harmony. What I am telling you is that if there is need for us to say to the executive that what you are doing is wrong, we will say it. We will tell them that what they are doing is wrong. But we don’t have to camp out and announce to the people that these people are doing this. No. But if they do and we tell them the right thing and they don’t take it, we will come out and tell Nigerians. We can show them that this is wrong, this is illegal and this is unconstitutional but there are certain things that they do which are constitutional. Now somebody was raising the issue of the executive transmitting the list of ministerial nominees and we just cleared all the nominees for appointment. This is a very good observation but it also has a problem. There are qualifications in the Constitution that provides for who can pass as a minister and who cannot. Now they gave us the list of ministers and there is nowhere in the Constitution which says that the executive should submit the names of ministerial nominees together with the portfolios they would be assigned. It is not there anywhere in the law, unless we are going to create the law. If we want, we can create the law but suppose the President did not assent to it? Even in Constitution amendment, ours is to amend and pass it to the President for his assent; if the President does not like it or we fail to get majority support from the 36 State Houses of Assembly, we can’t make it. The only way we can get things done is by getting these people to see the wisdom of our position not grandstanding. Grandstanding does not get things done. To get things done, you must make sure that the other person, who is your partner, is also comfortable with the proposal that you are making. The Senate or the National Assembly is not a dictator. It does not dictate the pace but it is a partner in the democratic process. As a partner in the democratic process, we will play our role and our roles are not to rubber stamp anything. But when we see that things are not being done the right way we are to say no. But when we say no, we also have to be ingenious enough to say why don’t you do it this way? We have to reach some form of accommodation so that there will be value in what we deliver to Nigerians. Otherwise, we will end up collecting our salaries, round up our four years and go with nothing of value going to Nigerians. The security situation in the country has become an issue. You were part of the 8th Senate. Recall that there was a security summit organised by the Senate. Is there anything that has changed which the Senate wants to add? The Senate as a very important arm of the Nigerian Government has a responsibility to contribute not just to the debate but also to action about what needs to be done to secure the lives of Nigerians. This is our corporate social responsibility to Nigerians who elected us as an arm of government. But like I told you, we cannot do everything without getting the other arms to see the wisdom of our operation. All we want is to make sure that Nigerian lives are secured wherever they live and work. That is our interest.   The issue is for all of us to come together, drop our partisan gabs and face the issue of security crisis that face this nation. I think the security challenges are the most important challenges that face us and this time around we as a Senate will not just sit down and say let’s do this or that; no, we are going to come up with our own blueprint on how we think the security architecture of this country should be built. Whether it is going to be a uniform architecture; whether we will allow the different sections of the country to develop their own local architecture, what do we do at certain level to make sure that the nation is there irrespective of the diversity of the security arrangements you have. The more diverse, the better so we can secure the lives and property of Nigerians.