Management of the Adamawa State University management and its press club are at daggers drawn over the former’s proscription of the latter. In its defence, the management says the club’s activities pose ‘security concerns’ on campus. But, the club members who denied the allegations insist it is one of the tactics the management employs to silence the press on campus. SAM AKINDELE, a 400-Level History and International Studies student of Federal University of Oye-Ekiti, reports.  There have been a wave of reactions by students of the Adamawa State University, following the prohibition of the university’s press club. The university management in a memo a fortnight ago,directed the press club to cease further activities in the next three months, citing ‘security reports’. The development has led to accusations and counter-accusations. The management said the activities of the campus reporters were posing a threat ‘to the security of other students on campus.’ However, the student-reporters told CAMPUSLIFE that the management was trying to rope them into a cult-related scandal, ostensibly to ‘clampdown’ on them for constantly exposing the ills in the institution. Defending its action, however, the management said the measure was taken in the students’ best interest. CAMPUSLIFE obtained a memo signed by the Acting Registrar Ahmed I Ghaji and copied to to the president of the press club. The memo read: “Management has received with dismay the report on the activities of the press club and the threat it poses to the security of other students on campus. “In view of the above, management has banned the club from operating on campus for three months”. Ghaji further directed the press club to immediately put on hold every activity and ensure strict compliance with the directive by all members. The National Union of Campus Journalists (NUCJ) has condemned the action. A statement posted on NUCJ twitter page, read thus: “NUCJ totally condemns the illegal ban of Press Club in Adamawa State University for three months. Findings reveal that the university management has no good-enough reasons to ban the student journalists for exercising their rights.” Nevertheless, students who spoke with CAMPUSLIFE, under the condition of anonymity for fear of being victimised, insisted that, as usual, the management was up to one of its draconian measures which it has deployed for years to gag the press. Students react to ban A CAMPUSLIFE reporter described the banning as “ a tactical attempt to manouevre or silence the students.” He accused the university of attempting to duplicate the victimisation of the press in the larger Nigerian society by the authorities. “I am a student of Adamawa State University who is very much aware of happenings on campus. I can tell you categorically that the ban is a tactical attempt to silence the students,” the source began. “The management’s action is very wrong and we are airing our views to let the world know that it’s (ban) not in accordance with the societal norm. “They are trying to repeat what is happening in the outside world, taking a cue from the widespread attack on press freedom and freedom of speech by the citizens of Nigeria. “This press club has served as a medium which connects the students with the happenings in the institution. We, therefor, appeal and call on all media outlets, National Union of Campus Journalists, independent organisations and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) to be active and proactive in the protection of press freedom across tertiary institutions within Nigeria. ‘’We say no to attack on freedom of press. We say no to attacks of press club in Adamawa State University.” Going down memory lane, another student  said the institution had a long history of revulsion for media activities. The source regarded the press club as the only avenue for students to advocate improved welfare for members and the general wellbeing of the university. The source added that should the management uncover their identities, they could be victimised or, worse still, their graduation delayed. The source said: “I think the management of this institution for long has not hidden its hatred for press activities. Unfortunately, we have a set of union leadership that kowtow to management. It’s only the press club where we channel our grievances. “Thankfully, they will carry it boldly on the campus magazine, especially things that has to do with the welfare of students. Our campus writers usually give prominence to things like corruption in hostel allocation, the poor state of the student clinic, and many others.  Owing to this situation, there have been incessant attacks by management on the press club supposedly to weaken its leadership.” Another CAMPUSLIFE reporter in the university said:“The suspension of the press is not a surprise. This is what we have been seeing by the school management that often puts flimsy excuses in order to justify their actions.“ She continued: “Our fear now is that since the press club can be banned, we no longer have that gut to protest against any policy (by management) that is inimical to our interest. If a whole organisation can be banned, that simply means we no longer have that voice. We should simply keep quiet as any reaction could jeopardise our future. We hope other students will rise up and support the press so that this suspension can be lifted.”  Management reacts The university’ spokesperson, Mr. Belmond Benson, said members of the press club were the architects of their misfortune. He said: “You didn’t ask the press club why they were banned. I hope you are aware management will never take a decision just like that. We are having security issues here and you know Mubi environment. You know the history around Mubi? “There are reports on some of their activities as a club; that is why management is taking this decision in the interest of the students so that we can fish out the bad eggs infiltrating the club. Nobody is saying the press club is bad but the management is doing this to be able to know those bad elements among them.” When CAMPUSLIFE urged Benson to be more specific on what the security issues were, he directed the CAMPUSLIFE reporter to enquire from the press club. Benson said: “Did they (press club) tell you they ever had an event outside the campus of the university? What did they do outside the campus? What transpired there? It was not even the university security outfit that brought the reports, but outsiders. So, find out from them. Confront them with this allegation of holding an event outside the campus of the university. “This is not just something that started now but it’s unfortunate they are misleading everybody with the report they are giving. The management is doing whatever it can in the interest of the system. We don’t want anything that will pollute the system,” Benson concluded.  Allegation unfounded, says press club Responding to the allegation by the university, one of the members of the press club denied any wrongdoing. The source explained that members only went for hiking outside the university. “We went for hiking. When we came back, the school’s Chief Security Officer called us that we went for a programme without informing the school authority. The CSO then accused us of belonging to a cult group, and that we took new members out of campus for initiation, said the student reporter “We told them they don’t have any evidence. The school never presented any evidence on the allegation. They said we used razor blade and other things there which is not even true because we asked them to provide evidence but they couldn’t. “After the scenario, the issue died completely. It’s after this issue (banning) they are now trying to bring it up again. We then told them that that allegation has since been resolved for good. “Their target is just us. There is no activity we are doing that is against the school management. And another thing is that the school never set up a committee to investigate us, there was no panel in place.” 