 A CORONAVIRUS case has been reported in Lagos, Nigeria’s commercial city. An Italian who travelled into Lagos tested positive, Commissioner for Health Prof. Akin Abayomi said in a statement early this morning. The statement by the commissioner said: “The case is an Italian citizen who entered Nigeria on the 25th of February from Milan, Italy for a brief business visit. “He fell ill on the 26th February and was transferred to Lagos State Biosecurity Facilities for isolation and testing.  COVID-19 infection was confirmed by the Virology Laboratory of the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, part of the Laboratory Network of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control. “The patient is clinically stable, with no serious symptoms, and is being managed at the Infectious Disease Hospital in Yaba, Lagos. “The Government of Lagos State under the Governor as the COVID-19 Incident Commander, through the Lagos State Ministry of Health, has been strengthening measures to ensure that any outbreak in Lagos is controlled and contained quickly in collaboration with the multi-sectoral Coronavirus Preparedness Group, led by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). “We have immediately activated the State Emergency Operations Centre to respond to this case and implement firm control measures.” “I wish to assure all Lagosians and Nigerians that we have been strengthening our preparedness since the first confirmation of cases in China. We will use all the resources made available by the state and the federal government to respond to this case.” “We are working to identify all the contacts of the patient, since he arrived in Nigeria. Please, be reminded that most people who become infected may experience only a mild illness and recover easily, but it can be more severe in others, particularly the elderly and persons with other underlying chronic illnesses. “All Lagosians should take care of their health and maintain hand and respiratory hygiene to protect themselves and others, including their own families, following the precautions below.” The precautions as listed by Abayomi are He also urged Lagosians not to abuse social media and indulge in spreading misinformation that causes fear and panic, assuring that relevant agencies have been mobilised. The statement added: “The Lagos State Ministry of Health, in collaboration with Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, will continue to provide updates and will initiate all measures required to prevent the spread of any outbreak in Lagos.”  