With Pastor Faith Oyedepo  Dear Reader, I count it a great privilege to share God’s Word with you today. Last week, I taught you on how two can become one. This week, I will be showing you: One Vital Benefit of Togetherness in Marriage. I want you to know that God’s purpose for designing marriage is solely for man’s benefit. This is why marriage is ordained for better living and not a necessary evil. One standing secret that breeds peace and fulfilment in marriage is togetherness. This is a feeling of closeness or affection between you and your spouse. It talks about friendship and understanding between couples and this is one vital key to a successful marriage. To understand the importance of togetherness in a home, you must understand its benefits and they include: Enhanced Spiritual Life Marriage is designed by God to provide additional spiritual strength to man. The Word of God says: Iron sharpeneth iron; so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend (Proverbs 27:17). The purpose of God for marriage is for a man and his wife to sharpen each other. Note that only iron sharpens iron; wood cannot sharpen iron. This reinforces the importance of the fact that the two belong to the same Kingdom spiritually. Reciprocal reinforcement among couples makes it easy for both of them to win spiritual battles. God expects the married couple to become stronger spiritually than when they were both single. The two of them, together in warfare against the devil, will cause ten thousand demons to flee (Deuteronomy 32:30). A couple who does not care about the spiritual state of the partner is not helping him /her. When you find out that your spouse is weak spiritually, don’t just fold your hands unconcerned, watching his /her life deteriorate. You need to strengthen him/her. A husband, who concentrates on himself alone rather than helping his wife to stay spiritually vibrant, is selfish.  He should know that, at the end of the day, the result can be likened to the effect of the force of gravity on an object that is thrown up. Very soon, the object will stop going up and start coming down. A wife who is spiritually weak can pull down her spiritual-giant of a husband, and vice versa. Spiritual reinforcement makes for spiritual prosperity. The prosperity of your soul determines that of all other areas in your life. The Bible says: Beloved, I wish above all things that thou mayest prosper and be in health, even as thy soul prospereth (3 John 2). From the above scripture, it is evident that God wants His people to have all-round prosperity, beginning from their spiritual life. It is a spiritual law that the extent of your physical prosperity determines that of your soul. God intends the married to reinforce, support and uphold each other to access spiritual prosperity; and as they do that, they will also find prosperity in health, finances and material things.  This is not to say that Christians who are not married are necessarily weaklings, but when a man is united with God’s choice for him, they become resources of inspiration to each other for soaring higher in the realm of the spirit. They become fortified and stronger. The closest association you can find between two individuals is between a husband and wife. When they come together and agree, sharing a common goal and living a common life, they can easily win all life’s manifold battles. In God’s own scheme, one will put a thousand to flight and two will chase ten thousand. It is also important that you know that marriage does not make you less spiritual as some think. Some people say that Christians go cold when they get married. There is no scriptural backing for this. There might be those who become less spiritual after marriage, but there are several others whose strength has doubled as a result of marriage. Marriage is not meant to pull you down spiritually, but to lift you up. I have been married for over a decade now and yet my husband and I are still full of zeal serving the Lord with the whole of our lives. Each new day opens with a new determination to climb greater heights. The secret is that I discarded the unscriptural idea that marriage makes you less spiritual and embraced the scripture that says: Two are better than one… (Ecclesiastes 4:9). You can do the same because God is no respecter of persons. You have to decide whether you will allow your marriage to weaken your zeal and faith or to propel you unto a higher calling and service unto God. All through scriptures, you will discover that two are always better than one. When Jesus was to send His disciples on their first missionary trip, He sent them two by two. Realizing the potent force of agreement, He taught His disciples that: If two of you shall agree on earth as touching any thing that they shall ask, it shall be done for them of my Father which is in heaven (Matthew 18:19). Spiritual upliftment can only come when you have accepted the Lord Jesus Christ into your life. Surrendering your life to Jesus entails confessing your sins and accepting Him as your Lord and Saviour. If you would want to surrender your life to Christ, please say this prayer: Dear Lord Jesus Christ, I come to You today. I am a sinner. Forgive me my sins and cleanse me with Your Blood. I accept You as my Lord and personal Saviour. Make me a child of God today. Thank You for delivering me from sin and satan to serve the living God and thank You for accepting me into Your Kingdom. Congratulations! If you prayed this simple prayer of faith with me, you are now born again and a child of God. He loves you and will never leave you. Read your Bible daily, obey God’s Word and seek Christian fellowship (John 14:21). With this, you are guaranteed all-round rest and peace in Jesus’ Name! Call or write to share your testimonies with me through contact@faithoyedepo.org, 07026385437 OR 08141320204. For more insight, these books authored by me are available at the Dominion Bookstores in all Living Faith Churches and other leading Christian bookstores: Marriage Covenant, Making Marriage Work, Building A Successful Home and Success in Marriage (Co-Authored). 