If Nigeria is to grow enough food for the projected 250 million population by 2050, agricultural productivity will have to rise, according to analysts. One area this is required is in cereals production. One of such cereals is wheat. Stakeholders are calling for a transformation in wheat production, DANIEL ESSIET writes As population increases, ensuring food security in key staples such as cereals has become critical. This is because cereals provide people with more protein than meat, fish, milk and eggs combined, making them an important protein source for over half the world’s population. One of such cereals is wheat.  Globally, wheat is the most widely cultivated cereal. Analysts said it is a staple food for 40 percent of the world’s population and contributes 20 percent of total dietary calories and proteins worldwide. The major players in the global wheat landscape are Russia and the United States which have deployed technology to increase yields and total outputs. Africa – a mixed picture Wheat has become a major staple food in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). In Africa, wheat plays a very important role in food security and resilience. However, most producing countries on the continent are net importers of wheat. These include Ethiopia, South Africa, Sudan, Kenya, Tanzania, Nigeria, Zimbabwe and Zambia. According to analysts, average wheat production is very low (less than 2.5 tonnes/hectare (t/ha).This is because a large proportion of producers are small scale farmers. The situation is further complicated by production shortfalls associated with climate change, pests, diseases, civil unrest and even migration.  Across the region there has been little progress in increasing wheat production. SSA has become increasingly dependent on imports, raising concerns for policy regarding food security. The wheat crop in Algeria, Egypt, Libya, Morocco, Tunisia, Nigeria Ethiopia and South Africa suffered. Collectively, they accounted for 80 per cent of wheat imports. Nigeria faces low wheat yields For a country that consumes such large quantities of wheat, and leads Africa in how much land it devotes to these crops, Nigeria produces far lower quantities of wheat than it could. Currently, Nigeria produces 400,000 tonnes of wheat a year. Yield rates for wheat —tonnes produced per hectare—are drastically lower than its counterparts across the continent. A yield rate of two tonnes per hectare placed Nigeria at the lower rung among countries producing wheat in Africa. The yield is poor due to reasons such as under investment in the sector, low  level modernisation in agricultural equipment, poor seed varieties, climate change related impact such as prolonged droughts and pests and diseases. The National President, Wheat Farmers Association of Nigeria (WFAN), Alhaji Salim Muhammad, noted that the local production had slumped from 600,000 tonnes to less than 400,000, saying that the demand-supply gap was so wide that stakeholders are worried about the fate of the country’s wheat sector. He said Nigeria imports annually wheat to the tune of $4.6billion while in the whole of Nigeria the farmers only produced 2-3 hectares of wheat. Muhammad noted that even Egypt and Sudan are producing 9-10 hectares of wheat, adding that this clearly shows that Nigeria today is the least wheat producing country in the world. He lamented that only Kebbi and Kano states are supporting wheat farmers while the remaining 34 states refused to give priority to mass production of wheat. Struggling wheat farmers worry The farms are spread between Sokoto, Kebbi, Kano and Borno. The patchwork of farms across the vast landscape has long been the source of much of the nation’s supply of wheat. But poor conditions coupled with dismal harvests are taking a severe toll on farmers.  Experience of drought and other challenges are taking toll on businesses, bank balances and emotional well-being.  Dismal farming conditions come against a grim background of plummeting incomes. Speaking with The Nation, Mohammed said farming incomes across the country dropped due to higher operating costs and interest rates and stagnant or falling crop prices. In the last ten years, the price of farmable land has soared, driven up by scarcity and speculation.  When some of them started wheat farming nearly 20 years ago, an acre was sold for N20, 000. Today; the same acre sells for more than six times the amount. The price of machinery has also outpaced incomes. Over the past decade or so, farmers have not been able to replace aging equipment with high-tech machines from John Deere and other makers. Wheat farmers said one of the major hurdles they experienced was their inability to find a comfortable market for their product- a situation that has affected them drastically. According to them, they lack large-scale buyers referred to as off-takers. “Our major off-takers Flour Mills have abandoned us for local merchants even after an agreement we had with them during a national meeting held last year in Kebbi,” bemoaned Legal Adviser to the Sokoto chapter of Wheat Farmers Association, Nasiru Muhammad which has over 4,000 members with major producing local government areas noted to include Wurno, Goronyo and Gwadabawa. “After harvest, the millers just went their way and bought from local merchants, which seriously affected us,” he added. According to him, the off-takers who had agreed to buy the produce at the rate of N17,000 per 100 kg bag, went ahead to deal with local merchants who sold it to them at N12,000-N13,000 per bag. The farmers recalled that last year‘s Anchor Borrower Programme also greatly affected them as they suffered heavy loss from poor variety seedling provided to them. The seed only grew but never yielded anything and many wheat farmers are yet to recover from the hazard that came with it, Muhammad stated. The wheat farmers also lamented that unlike rice they are not getting enough from government intervention. They explained that wheat farming commences early November of every year “We plant 1st November and by middle to the end of November, we commence harvest, and you can see, the dry season intervention is yet to commence, how can a wheat farmer wait for the intervention?,” the wheat farmer stated. Muhammed, who has been in wheat farming for over 10 years, said they are looking forward to the flour mills to honour their agreement of last year to buy from them so that the farmers can realize enough to do better this year. He called for support to produce enough wheat in the state, “Government should invite off-takers to buy from us so that we continue making an impact like our counterparts because wheat farmer needs off-takers to grow, if you rely on small-scale buyers, you can’t even realise the money you invested it.”A former chairman of the wheat farmer association, Alhaji Marafa Mahe, who is Sarkin Kudu Taloka, opted out of wheat farming for lack of off-takers. On the issue of marketing the grain and pricing of the already produced grain, the president stated that the federal government had left the wheat farmers and the wheat millers to drag on the pricing as contained in the memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed instead of imposing adherence on the part of the millers by the federal government. Stakeholders’ response The wheat sector has a range of stakeholders across the industry, ranging from the growers at the farm gate, to the research community and the wider industry.  In a recent interview, the President, Federation of Agricultural Commodities of Nigeria (FACAN), Dr Victor Iyama emphasized the need to provide the right incentives to encourage the farmers to adopt wheat. According to him, the nation’s food security depends on producing cereal crops, as well as increasing its production of fruits and vegetables to meet the demands of a growing population with rising incomes. To do so, a productive, competitive, diversified and sustainable agricultural sector will need to emerge at an accelerated pace. He said increased investments, and developments in variety improvements and farming practices will help to transform the industry. Despite heightened uncertainty, Iyama said Nigeria’s economic outlook continues to be positive, with domestic demand being the main driver of growth. It is supported by robust investment, stable inflation, and a strong job market. The Director-General, Feed Nigeria Summit, Richard Mbaram said wheat is grown under a wide range of conditions in a few states   across the country. He said  wheat is produced across a wide area with differing climate and soil characteristics and diverse management requirements. The average level of production, according to him, masks substantial differences in yearly production statistics.  He noted that managing the risks associated with inclement climate is a crucial challenge for the industry. Prof. Daniel Gwary of the Department of Crop Protection, Faculty of Agriculture, and University of Maiduguri said wheat production in Nigeria is very low leaving a huge deficit that can only be met by importation from other countries such as the United States of America and Europe causing the country an import bill of about $4.00 billion annually. He said: “Importation of wheat is both expensive for the country and contradicts the national ambition of achieving food security through the promotion of local production. Wheat can be grown in Nigeria under both rain-fed and irrigated conditions. Land and other inputs are available but yet the production has not met up with the national demand. This summarizes the factors that are constraining production in Nigeria with the view to drawing government attention to the need to overcoming the challenges.” He highlighted constraints being faced by wheat farmers to include poor seed, less preferred quality, and moderate levels of yield gains. He emphasized the need to develop high yielding wheat hybrid varieties with acceptable grain quality. He added that more intensive training of key stakeholders in advanced technologies will help in bridging production gaps across the country. Gwary said increasing wheat productivity is the way to go. He said there was a need for building resilient wheat production system that can adapt to climate change and water stresses such as drought and floods. Imports Nigeria is fully reliant on wheat imports to fulfill demand for wheat flour-based food. This is  a burden on the scarce foreign exchange reserves. For instance, 80 per cent of the wheat hectarage in Nigeria  is cultivated by small scale farmers who produce only about 20 per cent of the country’s total productivity demand. Despite increased corn production, feed mills continue to use significant quantities of imported feed wheat. Relatively stable macro-economic conditions have allowed middle and upper-middle income Nigerians to diversify their diets to include more western-style foods such as  bread and pasta. Restaurants and high-end bakeries are also driving demand for wheat-based food products. Two-thirds of flour users are considered small and Medium Enterprise (SME), characterised as traditionally managed, family-owned, and community-oriented business. These include small scale wet noodle makers, street food vendors, low-end bread and bakery businesses, and traditional Indonesian cake makers. The other third are large enterprises, including several publicly-listed companies, with advanced production facilities and professional management. These producers include instant noodle manufacturers, high-end bakeries, and cookie and biscuit manufacturers. Weather concerns Extreme weather conditions have caused domestic cereal production to decline sharply. Climate change poses problems for the production of most crops cultivated in Nigeria, including   wheat. This was due to an extended period of dry weather early in the cropping season followed by heavy out-of-season rains. The variable seasonal conditions and diverse cropping challenges are being experienced by growers in most parts of the North where wheat is grown. Overall, year-to-year changes in climate factors during the growing season of wheat accounted for yield fluctuations. Climate-induced longer and more frequent droughts continue to challenge farming especially in the North. Gwary said climate change has made wheat farming in the Northern part of the country vulnerable with consequent impact on production. He quantified the effect of climate extremes, such as droughts or heatwaves, on the yield variability of staple crops, including   wheat. According to him, favourable seasonal conditions are key in increasing production in major wheat-producing countries. Gwary believes climate-resilient crops are important and that the research institutes should carry out research and field-related activities on climate-resilient small-scale farming. Headwinds to growth The flour millers signed a Memorandum of Association (MoU) with farmers to off-take locally produced wheat at N140, 000 per metric tonne. But with the high inflation rate in the country, the N140, 000per metric tonne is no longer profitable for farmers as cost of key inputs have doubled. Though this may make market sense to the flour millers, it is stalling the government hope of halving the importation of wheat into the country and the drive to boost local production of the crop as farmers are now abandoning farming the crop. “The off-take price is no longer profitable for farmers. Prices of inputs are more expensive than they were before, so how can we sell at that price and still remain in business. It is only profitable for farmers at N180, 000 metric tonne(MT) per tonne now,” Mohammed told The Nation. According to the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), Nigeria’s production costs for local wheat have doubled to approximately N151, 200 per tonne over the last six months. He said the average price of local wheat in the country sells for N140, 000 per metric tonnes. A metric tonne of US ‘hard red winter’, which is a major market for Nigeria, sells for N83, 520 per metric ton, according to the International Grain Council. “Many wheat farmers in Kano have stopped producing the commodity due to lack of market and other challenges. On requirements for wheat production in Nigeria, Gwary said wheat crop is usually a temperate crop requiring low temperature between 10 and 25  zero degrees Celsius (OC) for growth and development. However, research over the years globally has been able to develop varieties that can tolerate higher temperatures and be cultivated under irrigation in sub-humid and tropical regions of the world. For this reason, he said Nigeria took advantage of the two conditions of low temperature highland areas of Jos and Mambila plateaus to produce the crop during the rainy seasons and also the cool hammattan (10-23OC) period (November to March) of the Northern parts of the country to plant large areas of land under irrigated wheat utilizing dams and Fadama lands. “In view of this after several years of farm trials the following states have been found suitable for wheat production: Kebbi, Sokoto, Zamfara, Katsina, Kano, Jigawa, Kaduna, Plateau, Taraba, Bauchi, Gombe, Yobe, Borno and Adamawa (See photos of irrigated wheat fields in Hadejia below).”He  said wheat when grown under rain-fed conditions suffer from many diseases such as rusts & powdery mildews and pests such as ants, birds and rodents but the incidence and severity of these constraints are lower under irrigated conditions. He added: “with good management using recommended variety along with correct inputs, yields of up to seven tonnes per hectare are obtainable in Nigeria. He said Lake Chad Research Institute (LCRI), situated in Maiduguri has the national mandate for wheat improvement and seed distribution for Nigerian farmers. With funding from African Development Bank, he said LCRI has released eleven improved wheat varieties between 1998 and 2019 for planting in the wheat region of Nigeria. However, the recommended best performing varieties for irrigated production include six varieties of LACRIWHIT-4, LACRIWHIT-5, LACRIWHIT-6, LACRIWHIT-9, LACRIWHIT-10, & LACRIWHIT-11 while two varieties of LACRIWHIT-7 & LACRIWHIT-8 for rain-fed conditions all of which can mature within three months from the time of planting. Influence of the baking industry Nigeria is home to more than 500 commercial bakeries– making bread, cake, pie, doughnut and the business is extremely competitive. The baking industry, however,  are struggling to keep up with consumer demands as  health conscious customers demand a wide variety of delicious baked goods. Consumer demand for food products made from wheat flour is growing every day and largely unaffected by changes in disposable income.  This continues to place Nigeria among largest growth markets for wheat imports which include Egypt, Algeria, and Morocco and South Africa. A ray of hope Flour Milling Association of Nigeria (FMAN), comprising Dangote Flour Mills, Flour Mills of Nigeria, Honeywell Flour, Dufil, and Life Flour have donated 50 units of multi-crop thresher machine worth N70 million to Wheat Farmers in the country. The Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development has listed wheat, among the pool of crops the government plans to expand area under production and improve production methods in partnership with the private sector. Other interventions introduced by Nigeria in its quest for increased quality agricultural production include the introduction of the Anchor Borrower’s scheme under which the government has disbursed $150 million to 250,000 farmers and also the launch of the Presidential Fertilizer Initiative. Fighting low wheat production in Africa Nigeria is not alone in the drive to increase wheat production and make it compete with other staples on the continent. Wheat farmers in 11 African Countries – Benin Republic, Cote d’Ivoire, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Lesotho, Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe – are benefiting from a project aimed at increasing production and reducing demand gap of the crop’s products. Wheat is among the cereal crops in Morocco occupying 65 per cent of the country’s agricultural area.  Cereal  crops,  however,  have  historically  experienced  continuous  variations  in  production  levels across the country .  The variations, according to analysts   may  become  more  protracted  due  to  inconsistent  weather  patterns and rising temperatures caused by climate change. In response, OCP Group, Morocco’s national phosphates company, is at the forefront of utilizing technology innovation to produce sustainably more with less.  The Group has partnered with the Moroccan Ministry of Agriculture to help wheat farmers to boost production. Mohammed VI Polytechnic University (UM6P) is a hub of education, research, innovation and entrepreneurship, aspiring to become a solid bridge of knowledge between Morocco, Africa and the world. The Faculty Director, School of Agricultural Science, Fertiliser and Environment, Mohammed VI Polytechnic University (UM6P), Morocco, Prof Abdelaziz Yasri, said development of agriculture across Morocco, and Africa as a whole, is vital to the continent’s food security and economic growth. He said the university, is developing fertiliser that are specific to the needs of African soils and crops, as well as locally-appropriate service models for African farmers to have reliable, affordable access to these inputs and related products.