Taofik Salako, Capital Market Editor Analysts at Meristem Group have in 2019 picked five stocks that can be included in a portfolio that seeks to mirror pension fund administrator (PFA)’s investment guidelines. These stocks included Custodian Investment, Fidelity Bank, Guaranty Trust bank, NEM Insurance and United Bank for Africa (UBA). According to analysts, the companies in the PFA portfolio were selected in line with National Pension Commission (Pencom)’s guidelines which include that companies must have had taxable profit in three out of five years of operations and must have paid dividends or issued bonus shares in one out of the same five years. Analysts pointed out that given expectation that the economy will continue its growth trajectory and considering that a major concern for PFAs about the equity market has been the erosion of share value, they included additional factors including at least three years of turnover and earnings growths in the past five years, relatively high return on equity and return on assets compared to sector average, relatively low volatility, positive historical five year return and an attractive upside potential for 2020 based on target prices in the selection criteria for the PFA strategic portfolio. “We believe these companies should generate higher returns as compared to their peers, while also adding additional value to the portfolio by paying dividend,” Meristem stated on the PFA portfolio. For investors who prioritise dividend flows, analysts also constructed a prototype strategic portfolio that included nine stocks. The dividend portfolio is skewed towards stocks which have a consistent dividend paying culture. The stocks included in the portfolio were carefully selected using many criteria including being fundamentally sound with recorded earnings growth in three of the past five years and payment of dividend at least four times in the last five years. “In line with these criteria, we have carefully selected nine stocks from banking, industrial goods, insurance, agriculture and consumer goods sectors, with a total expected return of 89 per cent,” Meristem stated. The nine stocks included Conoil, Custodian Investment, Dangote Cement, Guaranty Trust Bank, NEM, Nestle Nigeria, Okomu Oil Palm, UBA and Zenith Bank. On fixed Income, analysts expected a tempered yield environment compared to the previous year and recommended three strategies that will provide investors with high returns compared with prevailing market rates through the year. These include concentration of exposure on mid to long tenor instruments in the Treasury Bills market. A mix of 182-Day and 364-Day instruments is expected to mitigate re-investment risk emanating from the projected lower rates, while leaving room to take advantage of a possible uptick in rates, should any risks crystallise. Also, a preference for bonds with high tenor at the long end of the curve with attractive yields provides holders of the instrument a chance to earn capital gains. “Given the lower yields in the market, we expect companies that require short term funding to take advantage of the yield environment and raise required capital. Thus, we advise taking advantage of investment grade commercial papers that will come to the market in 2020. We however, do not rule out the likelihood of a CBN intervention or other externalities which could alter the course of the yield environment during the year. In which case, the advised mix of instruments will create room for investors to take advantage of the uptick in yields,” Meristem stated. 