Nigerian model, style, brand influencer and entrepreneur, known as Berbiedoll, born Christiana Kayode has taken over the landscape of brand/style influencing through her jaw-dropping Instagram page which is replete with beautiful and stunning pictures of her promoting many top class brands. There’s hardly any style brand, fashion brand, beauty brand, hair brand and more who had never at one time or other employed the services of the drop-dead-gorgeous beauty. In a recent interview, the Ondo State born brand influencer reveals how she stays ahead of competition, to maintain her enviable position in the rapidly evolving industry. “First, I know my strengths, my fan base, I have a lot of loyal fans , and a lot of people that look up to me and admire me. So, they always tend to patronize anything I produce. I know my customers and always look after them. “Second, I’m very innovative, so this helps me ahead of my competitors, and also I’m very flexible and ready for change. Furthermore, I use marketing to create awareness by paying other brand influencers to promote the brand too. Berbiedoll is the Chief Executive Officer of Berbie Beauty Line. She established the company April of 2017. She was born in Lagos on April 30, 1993. She’s a native of Ondo State from Ondo West local government. She is also a graduate of Houdegbe North America University, Benin Republic with a Bachelor’s degree in mass communications. She’s the only daughter from a family of seven. She has four brothers with her mum and dad. Her primary job is basically brand and style influencing for other people’s brands, ranging from hair brands, clothing brands, shoe brands and many more. Unlike many beauty care line owners who claim to manufacture their own cosmetics, Berbiedoll actually procures hers from suppliers in the United States of America. In fact she’s into everything that has to do with beauty, including sales of glosses, weight loss tea, contact lens, waist trainer and so on. Berbiedoll has worked with brands like Etisalat, Highlystylish, Glo, Fabboutiique, Hairres , Cm Luxury Hair, Girly Closette, to mention a few. She also had a brief stint as a video model and appeared in music videos like “Woju” by Kizz Daniel and “Like a Party” by Burna Boy. She did a couple of funny video skits too with Sydney Talker and Nasty Blaq. At one time she had her own TV show on DSTV channel 189 “Pop Central” known as “Chef Corner” with Chef Bee and Chef Jazzy