The Lagos State Office of Education Quality Assurance (OEQA) has directed heads of public primary schools to create functional timetable to guide and monitor pupils’ academic progress. OEQA Director-General Mrs. Abiola Seriki-Ayeni gave the directive during a tour of public primary schools to monitor compliance with their resumption date. The tour followed the completion of EkoExcel training, an education reform initiative aimed at developing more highly skilled teachers, by training, supporting and motivating existing government teachers to succeed in their classrooms. The DG, alongside OEQA coordinating director, Education District III, head of departments and evaluators visited St Matthias Primary School, Lagos Island, for an on-the-spot resumption monitoring. The team evaluated teachers’ attendance, pupils’ turnout, sanitation of school premises, teaching, statutory records and learner safety, among others. Seriki-Ayeni said: “It is good to see pupils in school, ready to learn. A lot of our children in public schools have started lessons, while teachers’ turnout is impressive. “However, there must be a clear timetable in our schools for proper guideline and to monitor their academic progress at the end of the term.” “The reason Quality Assurance exists is because we understand that there is going to constantly be a reason to improve in one way or the other to support schools and students. “We are expecting that through our expertise, consistent visit to the schools and designed programmes and policies, collated data during the monitoring exercise will be used to write reports that will ensure that we have the right responses and results.” The DG encouraged St Mathias School head teachers to key into the technological skills they learnt at the EkoExcel training programme. She urged them to help reposition the educational system to fulfil the T.H.E.M.E.S. agenda of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu by giving their best. Seriki-Ayeni assured teachers and pupils that the agency would interface with key players, through training and stakeholders’ meetings to ensure transparency in every policy made. She said: “This will help OEQA evaluators in monitoring exercise to be abreast of the parameters required to set standards for schools.” The director-general enjoined OEQA zonal directors across the six education districts to monitor resumption compliance for public primary schools.