Growing up in America, the land of opportunities, Sarah Ogoke-Ejiogu always knew, even as a kid, that she needed to work hard to achieve her dream of becoming a scholar and a great athlete. As a youngster, she was surrounded by family members who supported her and were willing to be part of her success story. She was also aware of the fact that she had to put in a decent shift to attain success. She studied hard while doing several sports before she settled for basketball, albeit incidentally. She was a notable track and field athlete and a footballer but the allure of the basketball court was too great for her to ignore. After settling for basketball, she grabbed the chance of representing Nigerian with both hands in 2011. She said: “I’ll never forget the day I received a call from Mfon Udoka in 2011. It was warm breezy day and I was in Corpus Christi, Texas on the beach when my phone rang. “I was 21 years old and  in my third year in the university, Mfon told me who she was and asked me if I was fit. I said ‘yes’ and next thing you know, I was flown out to Orlando, Florida for training camp and the rest was history. “I was the only college player to make the team and we won a medal in my first Afrobasket competition in Maputo, Mozambique. Since then, I have won six medals (three gold, one silver, and two bronze), have gone to the World Cup, and look forward to winning a gold medal at the Olympics.” Despite achieving all these with the national team, the D’Tigress point/shooting guard is not relenting as she hopes to be at the Olympic Games with Nigeria later this year. She has also played in FIBA Africa Women Club Championship on few occasions, notably for First Bank Basketball Club of Nigeria before winning gold medal in 2019 when she led Ferroviario of Maputo to the title in Egypt by beating powerhouse Inter Club of Angola in a game she scored a massive 22 point. The efficient shooter is not one to shy away from her responsibility on her off the court. She scores from three point line with ease and was at her best for D’Tigress against Senegal in the 2017 Afrobasket final where she made a three point throw from almost the centre of court after which she gave a salute which has become her signature (after hitting the basket) and one of the highlights of the Afrobasket. In this interview with ADEYINKA ADEDIPE, the fun-loving point guard, who is currently in medical school in the US, denies rumours of her retirement from basketball; and noted that she will always be ready to represent Nigeria at any tournament and willing to play for clubs ready for her services all over the world. Excerpts…  The growing up years Growing up in the USA was okay but not without its challenges. The best part of the United States, for me, is being able to get an education without too much hassle. The opportunity for extracurricular activities like band, orchestra, and theatre, studying foreign languages, basketball and track and field was also very encouraging. Those activities kept me engaged and busy as a young lady. My family atmosphere was always good. My family always provided love and I didn’t always have what I wanted but I never lacked what I needed. I have a big family and I am thankful for the support and love that everyone has given me all my life. Being an all-round athlete As a student, I engaged in several sporting activities before settling for basketball and this gave me the chance of becoming a good basketball player. I was a four year varsity track star as well as basketball all throughout high school, but many people don’t know my first sport was soccer which I started playing from the age of 5. I loved soccer too and I would skip every other sport to play soccer but as time went on, it was clear I will eventually settle for basketball when I picked up the sport in high school. I was 12 years old when my friends asked me if I was going to play basketball for the school team. It was sort of an after-thought but I said okay and ended up becoming really good. Winning the Afrobasket in 2017 There is no better feeling than winning. Winning the lottery is not as exhilarating as winning a championship. Being a star is indescribable. It’s a happy feeling. I think that is when people started noticing that Nigeria was good. I mean really good. It’s good to make your country proud. Before now, the Senegalese were ruling African Basketball having won many titles but the D’Tigress were bent on doing themselves proud and winning the title for Nigeria in Bamako, Mali. No one thought we could win despite the good work we put in leading to the championship game but we knew what we came for and we put in our best. Senegal had a huge reputation which made them the favourite but we were in the game for the big prize, which we won convincingly. We were all happy to achieve the feat and show the world we have arrived. Defending the title in Dakar The team in Senegal was relatively new. We added a lot of height and talent to the roster in Ify Ibekwe and Victoria Macauley. Both are very nice young ladies and I was happy to welcome them to the team. The coaches and the entire staff were hospitable as usual. The head coach, Coach Otis Hughley pushes us to be better even if we won by 50 points. He is one of the hardest workers I’ve ever met in my life. I also enjoyed having Mactabene Amachree around because she is a great role model and inspiration to the team. My mother came to Senegal last year and enjoyed the championship experience with us so I was very thankful to have her around. The team was very nice to her and she had a good time and held the trophy after we won. It was perfect. Surviving Senegal’s scare The Senegalese actually stormed back in the final quarter of that epic game but we were worried at any point. This team is tough and we are very hard to beat, if not impossible. Though we were under pressure playing against 15,000 vociferous fans, but for me ‘Pressure makes diamonds’ which is the motto I live by. I don’t cower in the face of challenges I instead thank God for the opportunity to shine on a stage this big and then I seize the moment. I’m a black diamond. Encouragement from family members My mother has been my biggest supporter since the beginning. She funded my trips when I was in the early stages of my career when I was about 15 years old. I still remember the graduation party she threw for me before I left for the University of Pittsburgh. ‘GO Sarah, GO Pittsburgh, GO PRO’ was what the large banner at the house party wrote. I found the banner comical at the time and I even thought she was a bit naive because I never imagined that I would be a professional athlete so I guess you can say she spoke it into existence. Her motivation I must say that inspiration comes from different quarters but my first inspiration would be my father who is an anaesthesiologist in New York. Growing up with a doctor as a dad set the tone for every achievement that I have ever accomplished in my life. I felt that if my dad was a physician then there was nothing I could not be or do in the world. The second is my boyfriend, Keith Russel Graves who is a FIBA certified international basketball coach in Asia. He loves me a lot and has a lot of confidence in me and pushes me to be better. Winning the Africa Club championship with Ferroviario Coach Nasir Sale is my friend who is also a very nice guy. He is also smart and a tactical basketball coach. He was initially offered the position to coach the Mozambican club in the Africa Champions Cup for Women (ACCW) so he contacted me and Congolese/ French veteran Pauline Akonga to play for him and help Ferroviario defend the title they won the previous year. However, he was unable to fulfil the obligation to coach the team due to another FIBA event but wrote me and told me that if I still was available that he would link me up with the management of the club. I told him I would be available and that was how I got into the team. Winning the FIBA ACCW was amazing. It was a great experience because I was in head to head competition with some of the best guards in the world in Italee Lucas of Interclub and Kelsey Mitchell of the Indiana Fever who played for host Al Ahly of Egypt. Knocks off retirement rumour I never said I was retiring from the game. What happened was that I got into medical school and furthering my education didn’t mean that I have retired from basketball. Show me where I wrote that I was retiring from professional basketball. I don’t know where this rumour came from. Please it’s not true. I am still active and my talent has not disappeared. I’m still the same high scoring athletic 5’11 point guard/shooting guard that knows how to win. I’ve had countless 20+ point games in FIBA competitions to help Nigeria win big games and late last year I won my first FIBA African Champions Cup gold medal. This is something hundreds of fully active players have not even accomplished. Playing in Europe Playing in Spain with Celta Vigo was a good experience. I learnt a lot about spacing and defensive rotations and adjustments. I also have friends there that are like family and treated me so well during my time there. The Flipside I unwind by listening to music, watching Netflix, hanging out with my boyfriend, and taking walks around the New York City streets.