National Association of Polytechnic Students (NAPS) has vowed to begin protest against the refusal of President Muhammadu Buhari to replace the security service chiefs on Thursday. In a statement by the Association’s president, Sunday Asuku NAPS called on president Buhari to avoid individual failure to erode his goodwill, and as a matter of urgency replace the service chiefs. The umbrella body of polytechnic students argued that the sack of service chiefs has become highly imperative, following a scenario ongoing at one community in Yobe state, where Boko Haram/Bandits have demanded 1m Naira ransom in advance from community to avert attack. Asuku pledged that failure by the President to review the security architecture and replace the service chiefs, NAPS Leadership shall be on the street nationwide starting from Thursday 27th February, 2020. According NAPS President, “we shall be on the street nationwide starting from Thursday 27th February, 2020 when our earlier 21 days ultimatum issued to Federal Government will be elapsing in peaceful occupational protest in demand for the immediate replacement of tired but refused to retire service Chiefs. Tag #ServiceChiefsMustGoStruggle. They however called on citizens, CSOs and NGO to join the struggle for secured and safe Nigeria, championed by the students. According to him, “the Service Chiefs have really tried in doing their jobs but obviously their approach is no longer yielding desire result hence replacing them is imminent and inevitable provided security of life and properties still remain the top priority of this administration. “This we consider very disgraceful, embarrassing and insultive to the administration of former military retired General whose citizen have freely voted into office with confidence that he will turn things around in the fight against insecurity in Nigeria. “We call on president Buhari to avoid individuals failure to erode off his good will, integrity and determination to take Nigeria to next level, The service Chief have really tried in doing their jobs but obviously their approach is no longer yielding desire result hence replacing them is imminent and inevitable provided security of life and properties still remain the top priority of this administration,” said NAPS President.