 THE Ogunyemi House of Oniru Royal Chieftaincy Family of Lagos State has called on the government to officially write to the family to present its candidate for Oniru stool. Prince Ademola Daramola, speaking for the Ogunyemi Ruling House, said the family did not join issues with the Abisogun and Akiogun ruling houses because it was not the time then to replace the departed monarch. He said: “We are coming out now because the time is ripe. We don’t believe in creating unnecessary tension in the community because there are rules and regulations guiding the process of selecting a monarch. “The need for upright men to rise, speak the truth and set the records straight at all times is very important and this is the overarching reason for this press briefing. It is in a bid to disabuse the minds of the people of Lagos State about all forms of distortion perpetrated against the history of the Oniru Chieftaincy Family.’’ Daramola said the claim by the Abisogun Ruling House that the Ogunyemi Ruling House conceded the stool to the Akiogun Ruling House was baseless. “Therefore, it is not expected of Abisogun Ruling House or any other person to mislead the people that the Ogunyemi Ruling House conceded their right to the stool to the Akioguns in 1993. “It is evident that by the public Notice (Ref.  No. EOLG. 00153/Vol.III/76) issued to the Akiogun Ruling House by the Office of the Chairman of Eti-Osa Local Government Area on November 8, 1993, informing the Akioguns of the failure of the Abisogun as the next entitled Ruling House to produce a candidate (and further calling upon the Akioguns to produce a candidate in line with the Order of Rotation). It is the Abisoguns that conceded their right to the stool of the Oniru of Lagos to the Akioguns in 1993. ‘’ On the basis of the above, it is also clear that the historical antecedents  relating to the emergence of the last two Onirus have not altered the order of rotation as provided in Section 2 of the declaration but rather complied with the order of rotation in compliance with the principle of next entitle,” he said. He added that by the provision of Section 2 of the declaration, it was clear the Ogunyemi Ruling House was entitled by law after the Akiogun to produce the next Oniru.