All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has congratulated colourful politician and journalist, Mr. Bayo Osiyemi, on his 70th birthday. Asiwaju Tinubu described Osiyemi as a professional journalist, public relations expert of distinction and consummate politician and administrator. Osiyemi clocked 70 on February 4, 2020. In a congratulatory letter on Tuesday to the former Chairman of Mushin Local Government Area of Lagos State on the birthday by Tinubu’s Media Office, the former Lagos governor said: “I heartily congratulate you on your 70th birthday. Turning 70, the Biblical three scores and 10 years, is a significant milestone for which we must all join you and your family in thanking God for the wonderful gift of life. “At 70, you have done remarkably well for yourself, family and country. You are a professional journalist, public relations expert of distinction and consummate politician and administrator. “Your columns in national newspapers, usually written in your characteristic breezy and lucid style, are a must-read for me and for many others across the country. “The patriotism that shines through, the informed and constructive critique of national issues and the suggestions often offered on the way-forward are particularly noteworthy. “You shone brilliantly as Chairman of Mushin Local Government, providing and improving on public infrastructure for the people. “Even now, you are unrelenting as you continue in the service of Lagos in your present position as Special Adviser (SA) to Governor Babajide Sanwo-olu on Chieftaincy Affairs. “As a politician and administrator, you continue to make significant contributions to the development of your Mushin community and of Lagos State. “My prayer is that God grant you more years, robust health and renewed energy and vigour to continue to serve God and humanity to the best of your abilities. Happy 70th birthday, my brother.” Also, Nigerians on Tuesday eulogised Osiyemi as a forthright journalist and dependable public servant. At the public presentation of his book, titled: The Charming Prince in Journalism and Politics, An Autobiography of Bayo Osiyemi, Asiwaju Tinubu said the columnist made remarkable contribution to nation-building. The APC stalwart, who was represented by his erstwhile deputy, Otunba Femi Pedro, said: “He (Osiyemi) is a journalist who uses his wealth of experience to impact in the lives of the people. He is a statesman per excellence; he is a rare and respectable practitioner of the pen profession. He is very relentless and a loyal public servant. “He has been in and around government, serving his fatherland through great writing, ensuring that the society is better. He started serving at the age of 29, when he was Chief Press Secretary (CPS) in the administration of former Lagos State Governor Lateef Jakande. “He became local government chairman, where his footprints are noted. He equally played his part during the military era by returning to his journalism, to enhance the return to civil rule by ensuring that things were done properly. He is now serving as Special Adviser to Lagos State governor on Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs.” Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu said: “He uses the talent to nurture the overall development of the country. He has also remained active since he ventured into the path of making Nigeria better. You have continued to make excellent contributions to the politics and development of the country. You have, by extension, made the people of Lagos to feel your impact through informed opinion at different forums. “You have been a consistent member of the progressive family; you have successfully combined journalism and politics together. I celebrate you for living a worthy life which others coming behind you are proud to emulate.” The chairman of the occasion, Senator Olabiyi Durojaiye, said Osiyemi had distinguished himself as a seasoned writer and politician. “All the attributes, especially those talking about his public life, showed that he is a journalist and politician that worth his onions and gifted in public service,” he said. Osiyemi said God has been kind to him, adding that everything had been working in his favour. He advised the youth to imbibe hard work and honour in their efforts to serve their fatherland.