 The Lekki Estate Residents Association (LERA) has welcomed the ban of motorcycles, popularly known as Okada, and Tricycles (Keke) in the area. It said the ban showed that the Lagos State Government was responsive to the security, law and order challenges of the area and urged Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to sustain enforcement of the ban. The association advised Sanwo-Olu to cushion the effect of the ban by urgently providing 15 LAGUS vehicles to ease movement within the estate. It stated this in a January 30, 2020 letter to the governor signed by its chairman, Sir Kayode Otitoju and secretary, Funmi Adeogun. “We are happy about the inclusion of Eti-Osa Local Government (by extension Lekki Peninsula Scheme 1) in the ‘No okada and tricycle ban… However, formal ban of Okada in our community has always been rendered a mere academic exercise due to delay or lack of enforcement of the Order. “We would be happy if Lekki could be given special attention in the area of serious enforcement. “It would interest you Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu that Okada constitutes a serious security threat to our residents, ranging from accidents, stabbing officials, damaging cars when they run into vehicles,” LERA said. The association noted that the take-off date for LERA‘s Model Transportation System is April 30, thus, a palliative transportation system was required in the interim. It added: “About 10 to 15 Lagbus buses will urgently be required to avoid shortage of carrying capacity to cope with the passenger demand that will result from immediate enforcement of the Okada Ban. This is expedient (between February 1 and April 30, 2020) before LERA’s model Transportation system…will take off in full force.” It thanked Sanwo-Olu for paying special attention on improving the infrastructure of the estate. LERA said: “Like your predecessors in office, Lekki has been accorded a special mention in infrastructural development and, within just seven months in office, you have initiated and completed many physical projects and socioeconomic programmes that impacted positively on the lives of the residents,” the residents said. It identified the projects to include road refurbishment, removal of the First and Second Roundabouts along Lekki Eti-Osa, Epe Expressway, ramp/bridge construction and implementation of cashless tolling on Lekki-lkoyi Link Bridge. It added: “Noise Pollution generated by club houses, hotels and churches has been substantially abated in our community through reprimand, sanctions and outright sealing of premises by LASEPA.”