By Emeka Omeihe  Events occurred simultaneously in many fronts in the last one week or so to signpost the degenerating security situation in the country. Curiously however, their handling by the authorities appeared to have created more problems than they were intended to solve. We are confronted with a reinforcement of the fault-lines of our federal order by the inappropriate reactions of the presidency, agencies of government and religious groups to some of the emerging security issues. Rather than pull energies together to find realistic and quick solutions to the wanton killings and maiming increasingly pushing the country to the brink, we are currently entangled in a contradiction of finding excuses, making comparisons that inexorably expose the mindset of the leadership to the festering security challenges. Two events of the past week bear out this point most poignantly. The first was the avoidable controversy stoked by the federal government’s reaction to the beheading by the Boko Haram terrorists of the chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, in the Michika Local Government Area of Adamawa state, Pastor Lawan Andimi. The other is the controversial handling by the police, of a suicide bomber suspect arrested penultimate Sunday at the Living Faith Church, Winners Chapel in Kaduna State. Following the offending video footage of the killing of Pastor Andimi by the terrorists and the killing of another student of the University of Maiduguri, Ropvil Dalyep CAN President, Rev. Supo Ayokunle had called on President Buhari to rise to the challenge of protecting lives and property. He saw the killings and the manner they were carried out as evidence that Boko Haram was targeting Christians. But in its reaction to the beheading of Andimi published in Speaking Out, a guest opinion column in Christianity Today– a United States based magazine, the presidency made a number claims that rather than douse the tension further inflamed it. The article which was supposed to be a tribute to the dead CAN chairman, went off tangent to bandy some sweeping claims. Its claim that more than 90 per cent of the deaths arising from the onslaughts of the Boko Haram insurgents were Muslims did not go down well with Christian leaders. Not unexpectedly, they have reacted angrily adducing reasons why the claim by the presidency should be dismissed with a wave of the hand for being a direct opposite of the facts on ground. How the government arrived at the figures, the propriety of such comparison and whether it has anything positive to offer in checkmating the rising insecurity in the country, are some of the issues to the controversy. The said article, obviously intended to launder the image of the government in the face of the worsening security challenges turned out a failure because of the inherent biases, cover-ups and skewed arguments in its entire gamut. Whether Muslims are killed in greater numbers than their Christian counterparts has little to do with the fact that life in this country has become a verity of the Hobbesian state of nature. It neither cancels the fact that those dying daily due to the failure of our security agencies to tame the monster are our citizens most of them, very innocent ones nor the high rating of the country within the terrorism index. This point was given fillip when, the US Secretary of state Michael Pompeo said very unambiguously at a joint press briefing with our Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama that terrorism threat was the reason President Trump announced the suspension of immigrant visas for Nigerian. So terrorism is terrorism no matter the victims. We are tired of excuses. We are tired of buck-passing and stereotypes in the way our leaders view the degenerating security situation. Sadly, the body language of the government has been at the center of the suspicion that there is an agenda masquerading as security infractions in many parts of the country.  It is not for nothing that members of the National Assembly have called for the sacking of the service chiefs for their inability to secure the country. Such calls got renewed fervor with the call by Senate minority leader, Enyinnaya Abaribe urging president Buhari to resign for his inability to secure the country since the buck stops at his table. If disputed ratio of Christian and Muslim victims was the cause of controversy in the earlier article, the name and religious faith of the arrested suicide bomber was to assume the focal point of the controversy into which that singular incident has been entangled. And when you pair the two events, you find out that they have a common denominator-religion. By the uncanny coincidence of the two related events, we are being confronted with increasing suspicion that the government is confused and helpless in the dimension insecurity has taken and has opted for cover-ups as regards those staging terrorism in the country and the doctrinaire issues to their action. What is obvious from those two incidents is an attempt to play down the religious dimension to the festering terrorism. But even if five Christian suicide bombers are arrested, that can neither blur the face of Boko Haram nor their agenda of foisting a theocratic state in this country. They are known for what they are and what they stand for. What seems obvious from all this, is the politicization of the security challenge confronting the country.  And in it lies our inability to evolve durable therapeutic responses to the monster. There has been this tendency by the leadership to clothe terrorism in borrowed robes. Why we have found it difficult to admit the character and texture of our own variant of terrorism is at the heart of the buck-passing and cover-ups that have been pitching sections and religions against the other. Sadly, the federal government, some ethnic and religious chieftains have severally found themselves stoking these controversies. It is largely because of the inability to build elite consensus on the reasons for the rising terrorism, those behind it and their motivations that the matter has festered. This ambivalent posturing is not new. We were treated to the same conspiracy of silence and denial of extant facts on the motivation of the Boko Haram insurgency when it first reared its ugly head. We are at it again nearly 10 years thereon. We cannot forget in a hurry the damaging and tendentious allegations bandied by the then governor of Adamawa State, Muritala Nyako in a letter to northern governors. He had among other dangerous allegations claimed that Boko Haram was a contrivance by the Jonathan regime to depopulate the north. And he got away with it because it perfectly served certain interests at that time. We are still contending with the same hackneyed sentiments. They speak volumes on the level of progress or lack of it in the fight against terrorism and ancillary security infractions.