An Ogba Magistrate Court, Lagos has ordered a housewife, Mrs. Esther Ijeoma Amechi to provide medical attention to her house help, Mrs. Joy Kanu who suffered various degrees of injuries after she assaulted her. Magistrate Mr. O. D. Njoku issued the “binding order” on Mrs. Amechi after taking arguments from counsels and the complainant, the International Charitable Initiative for Girl Child and Women Development Foundation (ICI-GWODEF). Joy Kanu, 43, a mother of nine consisting of three sets of twins and a triplet, is believed to be mentally unstable. Magistrate Njoku also ordered the defendant, Mrs. Amechi, to attend to the broken limbs and the wound on the head of Joy Kanu and other forms of treatment in the hospital for the next three months after which the court will determine whether or not to strike out the charges against her. The decision of the court followed the submission of counsel to ICI-GWODEF, Mrs. Juliet Nwadinma-Ohanyiri who told the court, during resumed proceedings yesterday, that the NGO was not party to the agreement for settlement drawn outside the court. Nwadinma-Ohanyiri said there were certain conditions they had agreed on with the defendant concerning the state of health of the victim of the assault, Joy Kanu, before any settlement could be discussed. “My Lord, members of our NGO rescued the woman and took her to Ojo Police station where we filed a complaint and later to the State Command of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF). “We took her to the hospital, paid her bills, clothe her and fed her. “At the last sitting of the court, Mrs. Helen Ibeji and Mrs. Egbe appeared for the NGO. How can they now said they do not know us? “Joy Kanu had broken limbs, there is wound on her head. We took her to Igbobi Orthopaedic Hospital; they got her discharged without treatment. I wish she could remove the big top given her to wear to cover her injuries. “We insisted she be taken care of among other things before any settlement could be considered. “I was surprised a person who couldn’t write her name was made to sign a letter of settlement even before and outside court sitting,” she said. Earlier, defence counsel, O.M. Okorie had told the court that his client, Mrs. Amechi and the victim had discussed and agreed on settlement outside the court. Okorie told the court that the victim claimed not to know the NGO and urged the court to withdraw the charges against her. He told the court that the family of the defendant wanted to channel resources towards the treatment of the victim and save time on litigation. Responding, Police Prosecutor, Mishozunnu Samuel, told the court that the nominal complainant, Joy Kanu, was interested in settlement because of the cooperation and positive treatment she has been enjoying from the defendant’s family. Turning his attention to Joy, Mishozunnu asked her of her relationship with the NGO and she replied that the members were not known to her. “I think at this stage, my application is to come back after about three months to allow for medical treatment of the victim to continue,” he said. Responding, Okorie again argued for the matter to be withdrawn immediately from the court since the defendant and victim have agreed on settlement and in order not to strain the new found relationship between them and to avert any negative feeling which a binding order of the court may have. The trial magistrate rejected various attempts by the mother and elder sister of the defendant to speak to the court in the course of proceedings and told them that only the defence counsel can speak for the defendant. Ruling on the matter, Magistrate Njoku noted that the issue of welfare and state of health of the victim was paramount to the NGO. “I cannot close my eyes to the welfare of the victim and don’t want to believe this is not secured unless the charge is withdrawn. I must ensure the victim is well taken care of,” he said. Magistrate Njoku wondered why the defence was in a hurry to withdraw the charge without first considering the welfare of the victim. “For there to be settlement, there must first be an improvement in the health and welfare of the victim”, he said and warned the defence counsel not to put the court in a situation where it would foreclose settlement. “We cannot close our eyes to what is happening now. What happens if the charge is withdrawn and the victim is abandoned? Any failure to treat the victim will foreclose settlement,” he warned. He ordered the prosecutor to monitor the process of treatment of the victim in the hospital until the next adjourned date fixed for May 20 for report of medical treatment on the victim and settlement. Esther is facing a one count charge of assault against her former house help, Joy Kanu, before Magistrate Njoku. The charge, according to Police Prosecutor, Mishozunnu Samuel, stated: “That you, Esther Ijeoma Amechi, on 19/01/2020 at 23, Simach Street, Agric Ojo, Lagos, did unlawfully assaulted one Joy Kanu by using iron rod and wood to beat her and inflicted various degree of injuries on her body with multiple fracture in her two hands and head and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 173, Criminal Law of Lagos 2015″. Before commencement of proceedings, a mild drama took place outside the court. Joy Kalu pulled a surprise on members of the NGO who she had not seen for almost one month.
When the members of the NGO saw her, they approached her to find out how she was doing. On sighting them, the victim, as if acting a script turned against them as if she had never seen or interacted with them in the past. She turned her back on them and shouted; ” don’t come to me o. I don’t into you” repeatedly. The NGO, seeing the development, had to let her be pending commencement of proceedings.