 •Lawmakers call for database of Okada riders, others •Ondo legislators to hold public hearing next Monday The proposed Ogun State Security Network Agency Law 2020, which seeks to provide for a law for the establishment of Amotekun Corps, on Tuesday scaled the first reading on the floor of the House of Assembly. The initial reading of the Bill was carried out by the Acting Clerk of the Assembly, Deji Adeyemo, before the lawmakers, with Speaker Kunle Oluomo presiding. The Speaker thereafter invited stakeholders and the public to the public hearing on the Bill scheduled for February 24 at the assembly complex, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta. Also, the lawmakers passed a resolution calling for the database of all Okada and tricycle riders in order to check the looming security threats occasioned by the recent ban on commercial motorcycle and tricycle riders in Lagos State. It was observed that the evicted commercial motorcyclists and tricycle operators had moved into Ogun State in droves, hence the need to take precautionary measures against the bad elements among them. The resolution called on the government through the State Park and Garages Development Board (PAGADEB) to set machineries in motion towards creating a database to regulate their activities with a view to forestalling any impeding security threat. The resolution was passed after the legislators debated the influx of riders, who they noted were mostly foreigners from neighbouring countries, into the state, expressing concern about the security threats posed by the activities of the unregulated motorcycle and tricycle riders, who had migrated to all parts of the state en masse following a ban on their operations in Lagos State. While opening debate on the motion at a plenary presided over by Speaker Oluomo, the sponsor and Chairman, House Committee on Transportation, Oludaisi Elemide, had expressed concern about the operations of the motorcycle and tricycle riders, who are strangers, pointing out the need for proper identification of all riders, including registered jackets with tracking numbers for ease of identification of each rider by security and regulatory agencies, including the Ministry of Transport. Stressing the need to checkmate their excesses, Elemide sought the inclusion of Community Development Associations (CDAs) and Community Development Councils (CDC) in the implementation of the resolution, which he noted would create a more coordinated database that would contain security information about the riders. Also contributing, lawmakers including Damilola Soneye, Abayomi Fasuwa, Kunle Sobukanla and Yusuf Adejojo said the resolution, when implemented, would improve the transport sector through the creation of a comprehensive data gathering scheme that would monitor road taxes payable to the government, while ensuring the safety of lives and property of residents. Also lending their voice to the passage of the resolution, Honourables Kemi Oduwole, Musefiu Lamidi, Atinuke Bello, Sola Adams and Yusuf Sheriff said that the proposed database would ensure proper monitoring and regulations of the activities of the riders, thereby curbing crime including robbery and kidnapping. Responding, Speaker Oluomo said that the state government through PAGADEB should be empowered to carry out the implementation of the resolution for effective and proper coordination, in line with its stipulated mission and vision of ensuring an all-inclusive transport management. The Majority Leader, Yusuf Sheriff, thereafter moved the motion for the passage of the resolution, seconded by Solomon Osho and supported by all lawmakers through a voice vote. The Ondo State House of Assembly yesterday began work on the proposed legal framework for the establishment of the Southwest Regional Security Outfit codenamed ‘Operation Amotekun’. It subsequently fixed the public hearing on the Bill for February 24. A statement from the Assembly noted that the Bill, which is to establish the Ondo State Security Network Agency and Amotekun Corps to assist in maintaining law and order in the state and for connected purposes, passed through first and second readings yesterday. The Bill has been committed to the House Committee on Security, to be joined by the principal officers of the House, to organise public hearing on the Bill on Monday.