 The National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON) has suspended all arrangements by intending pilgrims from Nigeria to Saudi Arabia for Umrah. The development, according to NAHCON became necessary following the temporary suspension of Umrah by the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on Thursday as a precautionary measure against the spread of COVID-19 (new coronavirus infection) that has spread to about 48 countries globally with a record of over 82,164 confirmed cases as at 27th February 2020. China is no longer the only breeding ground for COVID-19 as countries worry about possible contagion from other hotbeds of infection, including Iran, South Korea and Italy. A statement issued on Thursday night by Head Public Affairs of NAHCON, Fatima Sanda Usara, said: “The National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON) hereby draws attention of intending pilgrims from Nigeria to Saudi Arabia for Umrah or to visit the Prophet’s mosque in Madinah to suspend the arrangement until further notice. “The COVID-19 has recorded many fatalities that has forced some countries with confirmed cases to close down schools and other social gatherings. It is worthy and gladdening to note that the National Centre for Disease Control, an Agency under the Federal Ministry of Health, as at today Thursday 27th February, 2020 reported that there is no recorded case of COVID-19 in Nigeria. “The Federal Ministry of Health has taken all the necessary measures to prevent the disease in Nigeria. Therefore, NAHCON identifies with this courageous step by Saudi Arabia and affirms its commitment and cooperation in the interest of world Muslims and humanity in general. This measure was taken in accordance with approved international standards towards curtailing spread of the disease. “Consequently, NAHCON cautions Nigerian pilgrims for Umrah to note that this suspension is effective on those who have already been issued travel visas and about to embark on the journey as well as for those planning to do so in the nearest future. NAHCON urges all stakeholders to comply with the directive and await further instructions from the Kingdom’s authorities”.          