Nwanosike Onu, Awka The Movement for the Actualization of the Sovereign state of Biafra (MASSOB), says Ndigbo will give the parents of Nnamdi Kanu a befitting traditional burial on Friday The leader of Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu’s parents, Eze Israel and Lolo Ugoeze Sally Kanu, who died some months ago are billed for burial in four days’ time in Afaraukwu Community, Umuahia, Abia State. But the leadership of MASSOB, Monday, declared the burial was not for IPOB or Biafra, but that of Igbo in general. In a statement issued by the leader of MASSOB, Uchenna Madu, Monday in Awka, Anambra state and made available to reporters, warned the Abia state Command to stop creating unnecessary tension in the state According to MASSOB leader, Abia state Police Commissioner, Ene Okon, was quoted as saying that Police and other security outfits in the state would disrupt the burial of the monarch and his wife, if members of IPOB attended. In his reaction Monday, Madu described the alleged police statement as a way of heightening already charged atmosphere, adding that the burial was giving Kanu’s parents their traditional right and not IPOB or Biafra event According to Madu, “MASSOB condemns the statement of the commissioner of police that the police and other security agents will scatter and disrupt the burial of Mazi Nnamdi Kanu’s parents if members of IPOB attend. “His threatening statement is uncalled for and borne out of cowardice and hunger to satisfy the interest of his pay masters that employed him” “MASSOB wishes to remind Mr. Okon (Abia state CP) that no amount of his loyalty and self-stabbing sacrifices to his pay masters will ever earn him goodwill from Abuja” “The Abia state police boss statement is deceiving and full of inconsequential morale boosting of his personnel and other security agents in Abia state.” “The commissioner of police is being used to create unnecessary security tension in a peaceful Abia state” “The people of Afaraukwu community are peace loving . We have made it clear that the burial of Mazi Nnamdi Kanu’s parents is not an IPOB or Biafra event” “There will be no display or flying of Biafra flags or showcasing of any Biafra insignias. Abia state police boss should go and sleep” “MASSOB wishes to inform the Nigeria security agencies that the burial ceremony of HRM, Eze Israel Kanu and his wife is not an IPOB or Biafra function” “It is purely an Igbo traditional burial of Afaraukwu Umuahia for their late Eze and his wife. The security agencies should stop creating unnecessary and artificial tension in Afaraukwu Umuahia” “Ndigbo have resolved to accord Nnamdi Kanu’s parents a befitting burial as a profound traditional ruler. Their burial ceremony is not Biafra rally or demonstration” MASSOB, warned that no amount of intimidation and harassment from the Army or Police in the state would stop Ndigbo from according the traditional ruler and his wife a befitting burial.