 Tyson Fury’s promoter Frank Warren has warned Eddie Hearn that there are issues to be ironed out before a fight between Anthony Joshua and Tyson Fury can be made. After Fury dominated Deontay Wilder in Las Vegas to claim the WBC title, he and fellow Briton Joshua now hold all the heavyweight titles between them. Both Joshua and Fury are keen to unify the division, with a mouthwatering all-British affair on the cards in 2020. Wilder has announced his intentions to trigger a rematch clause to set up a third bout with Fury, while Joshua has two mandatory defences of his title scheduled for this year against Kubrat Pulev and Oleksandr Usyk. And while Hearn is bigging up the historic fight, Warren told him to get his affairs in order before the two men go toe-to-toe. ‘He says a lot of things, doesn’t he? He says whatever suits him on the occasion,’ Warren said. ‘When we tried to make the fight before, it was a problem. He knows full well what his contractual obligations are. ‘He knows his fighter has got a mandatory defence against Pulev and one against Usyk. So to get that fight on, a lot of people have got to be paid and looked after to step aside. ‘Tyson has no problem fighting him, we’ve called the fight enough times. We’ve never changed our mantra. ‘We’ll talk with Anthony Joshua’s management, we’ll talk to Freddie Cunningham and see what we can do.’ Meanwhile, Saudi Arabia is set to offer an incredible £400million bid to host Tyson Fury’s next fight. Four members of the Saudi royal family were ringside for the Gypsy King’s historic win over Deontay Wilder in Las Vegas. Prince Khaled was one of the Saudi royal family members in attendance at the MGM Grand on Saturday night. The 41-year-old has been ordered by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman to bring major sporting events to their country. He worked alongside promoter Eddie Hearn to bring Joshua’s December rematch against Andy Ruiz Jr to the Middle East. Fury’s promoter Frank Warren has refused to rule out the chance of Fury taking on British rival AJ in Saudi Arabia.