 LAGOS State Governor Babajide Sanwu-Olu has said he will encourage companies operating in communities to facilitate empowerment programmes for skilled and unskilled youths. The governor promised to ensure the inclusion of indigenous youths in the employment plan of the state. He spoke at the weekend at the 2020 Badagry Youth Oil and Gas Conference. Sanwo-Olu was represented by the Commissioner for Energy and Mineral Resources, Mr. Olalere Odusote. He said: “In Lagos State, we are convinced that youth engagement remains the fulcrum for peace in extractive operations. That was why we agreed to host this very important conference, so that together, with the youth, we can develop a unique Community Engagement Standard (CES) as a key component of inclusive governance.” He noted that while the petroleum sector had contributed to the economy of Nigeria and by extension the state by providing employment, supporting industries, and had enhanced the living conditions of people, often times, tension existed in the relationships between the youth and operating companies because of lack of mutual understanding in the standard of engagement and absence of a platform for engaging youths. The governor said the present administration was ready to work with youths and other stakeholders to make the petroleum sector more sustainable by implementing a step-by-step, follow-through process of establishing clear grievance structures, constructive dialogue and responsible handover practices; which would enable Badagry youths to benefit from the exploration. Stressing the need to work in harmony and promote better understanding between youths and other stakeholders, Sanwo-Olu, who promised a more proactive approach to the development of Badagry and its environ, said the expected attendant improvement in infrastructural development would attract more foreign direct investment to the state. During a question and answer segment, Commissioner for Energy and Petroleum Resources Mr. Odusote said that the state government would not relent in its efforts to ensure that adequate oversight was provided in the process and manner in which communities provided consent and participated in community development agreements. He said: “We have put in place necessary mechanism to ensure adequate investments in regular and marginal oil blocks as a means of diversifying the state investment portfolio for the overall benefit of the youth. “We are going to do everything we have promised so that Badagry will benefit from being a host community.” The commissioner assured Badagry youths that the government would complete the Mile 2-Okoko section of the Lagos-Badagry Expressway in the next two years. He promised to take the issue of multiple checkpoints along the Agbara-Seme Expressway to the governor for action. “We will continue to deliver our promise to Badagry people and will develop the infrastructure that the government has promised. We expect the people to take advantage of the state’s skill acquisition programme to improve themselves and contribute to the economy,” he said. 