NEW York-based singer Kingsley Kenechukwu Okolo is set to explore the Nigerian music scene with a single, titled ‘Mabinu Simi.’ The song which features DJ Jimmy Jatt and is produced by Soso Beat, showcases a lovethorn K.C caught in the web of a love triangle, pleading and explaining his actions and inactions. According to the management of Lakreem Entertainment, the video of the single is already in the works and shall be hitting the airwaves soon alongside the audio single. Taken away at age two to US by his parents, Kingsley, 24, can be said to be a product of New York. Kingsley, who is also known as King K.C, started off his academic journey at the PS-11 Elementary School in the South Bronx, before proceeding to the Kappa Academy for his Middle School and Andrew Jackson High School, Queens for his High School Certificates. He then obtained a college degree from Brooklyn  College, New York. In spite of the strong pull he had towards music early in life due to the strong culture of hip hop and Rap as its medium of expression in the Bronx, he had no other option but to study hard in complete obedience to his dotting parents who demanded that he clinch a college degree before thinking of anything else. After leaving school, King K.C got the nod from his parents to go into music. Of course, his parent’s insistence on education was borne out of the decadent culture of crime, gangasterism and bloodletting which was the hallmark of the Bronx. In this instance, King K.C remains ever grateful to his elder sister Wendy, who helped in steering his adventurous and impressionable young mind and thoughts off the prevalent street gangs and criminal fraternities of the time, as she kept reminding him of his “immense creative talents that must be nurtured and utilized for the benefit of mankind.” In October 2017, K.C released his first single titled ‘Alarm!’ in New York on his own private label named Royal Music. The song talks about a shy girl who loves him but lacks the temerity to confront him. The accolades and recognitions he received from the reviews then fuelled his hunger and determination to do more.