As part of its mission to drive effective knowledge and practice of journalism among students, the National Association of Mass Communication Students (NAMACOS), has paid a courtesy visit to the Nigerian Union of Journalists, Osun State chapter. The visit which was led by the president of the association Adesola Ikulajolu, aimed to enhance the town and gown relationship. Chairman of the Osun State chapter of the NUJ Mr Kehinde Ayantunji, lamented the challenges being faces by aspiring writers while plying their trade on campus. Ayantunji identified lack of access to information from authorities as well as victimisation of practitioners, as two major hiccups. Ayantunji advised young writers to report not with an intention to blackmail, but rather in line with truthfulness and public interest. He also stated that NUJ as a union, has been advocating regulation which will identify only graduates of Mass Communication as gatekeepers to avoid quackery in the field. Ayantunji gave the visitors 150 pieces of document comprising Freedom of Information Act, free. Ayantunji described journalism as a work which ethic must be followed to the letter. He implored practitioners to be tech-savvy saying the profession cannot be successfully carried out without considering revolution in Information and communication technology (ICT). He said: “Technology has given you the chance to carry out any investigative work with ease. The technology does not come by accident, but has been predicted since 1962 that it would determine the future of communication which we are experiencing today. So, in pursuing your journalism career, you must be technologically compliant” “Online medium is there for you to learn absolutely everything, but the most important thing about the platform is to ensure quality when publishing their articles. In his appreciation, Ikulajolu also a CAMPUSLIFE reporter, thanked the union for coming up with such brilliant idea which, according to him, would help students venture more into the profession.