Dr Emmanuel Ndukwe, Chairman, Governing Board, Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), has expressed satisfaction with processes put in place by the board, ahead of the forthcoming 2020 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME). Ndukwe spoke during an inspection of Computer Based Test (CBT) centres across Lagos on Thursday. According to him, remarkable achievement has been recorded in the process in Lagos already, especially with the ongoing registration of prospective candidates. “I want to register my profound pleasure with what I have seen so far in these centres, especially with regards to the ongoing registration. “I will like to say that these centres are performing according to the mandate given by the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) and with this I want to say that I am really impressed with Lagos centres. “Lagos is the third state that we are visiting after Enugu and Abia, to monitor registration and see, first hand, the state of readiness of facilities for the conduct of this all Computer Based Test (CBT). “In all, we have seen candidates having challenges to thumbprint due to congenital malfunctions, some others with hand malformations, cripple hand and sweating palms. “Such candidates are really a challenge because it was not envisaged, but JAMB will give them equal opportunity to write the examination. “We have invited them here today to our JAMB office here in Lagos in order to register them with our dedicated system,” Ndukwe said. According to the chairman, if this also fails, the management will write special report and forward same to the board for deliberation, or consider introducing new technology, like facial recognition He said that the board was being proactive to register candidates with these challenges and that those who could not make it to Lagos office would be invited to JAMB office in Abuja for their own registration. “The management of JAMB will bear all the cost of such candidates and those who may accompany them, until we find solution to their challenges. “The Board’s Registrar, Prof Oloyede, is always thinking ahead of whatever  challenge that may come up and proper solution. “I want to specially express satisfaction with one of the centres here n Lagos, Farydhak Concepts CBT, Lagos Island  for registering about 5,000 candidates so far. “The centers we have monitored are following our guidelines but if we find any center not complying , we will do the needful. “Candidates should study hard and I wish them luck and success in their forthcoming examination. “The era of parents trying to influence and help their children to practice malpractice are going gradually. NAN reports that over one million candidates have so far registered for the examination nationwide. The registration of candidates for both the UTME and Direct Entry commenced on Jan. 13 and would be concluded on Feb. 17. NAN   