THE Founder/General Overseer, World Evangelism Bible Church (WEBIC), Prophet Samson Ayorinde, has shed light on the re-positioning of the church. He spoke recently in an interactive session with the media in Lagos. Dr. Ayorinde said WEBIC will turn 25 this year and there is the need to reposition the church to further boost the work of the ministry. He said the church has set up many committees, including Finance, Building, Evangelism and Administration, adding that they would midwife the 25th Mantle (Convention) coming up in November. Ayorinde said since WEBIC is renowned for evangelism, this will be pursued rigorously. He said that the church had distributed special mantles (white handkerchiefs) to members to aid in evangelism. Prophet Ayorinde also spoke on the reorganisation of the executives of the various units such as Peace, Love, Faith, Joy, Samuel, Joshua and Isaac. But the Abraham/Patience Unit, which is for the elderly in the church, has its executives unchanged. He said the reorganisation would boost the work of the ministry. He said the Building Committee is coordinating the construction of a multi-million naira befitting new auditorium being put up behind the old building. The new auditorium, he said, would host this year’s 25th mantle anniversary. According to the GO, women are not left behind in the repositioning process. His wife and Co-Founder, Prophetess Mercy Ayorinde, coordinates “Operation Fruitfulness” which handles women’s issues such as barrenness. The unit, he said, recorded a feat last year, when through vigorous intercessory prayers, a woman who had married for 13 years without a child, gave birth to a set of triplets. On the need to further prepare his ministers for the ministry, he said the first set of students who underwent leadership training graduated on December 8 last year. They are called the Gideonites. It is the project of Prophetess Ayorinde who started it in 2016. The idea is to fortify the evangelism unit. On what advice he had for the Federal Government, Prophet Ayorinde urged the Presidency to do more in securing the country. He lamented the spate of violent crimes such as kidnapping, lamenting its upsurge. According to him, insecurity scares away foreign investors who are needed to lift our economy. Focusing on the foreign scene, Prophet Ayorinde joined world leaders in appealing to the United States and Iran to avoid plunging the world into another world war. He urged leaders of the two countries to de-escalate the crisis so as to ease tension in the region. He said the global economy cannot withstand crisis which occurred when the United States killed a top Iranian General, Qasem Soleimani, in a drone missile strike on Friday, January 3, 2020. He commended governors of the South-West States for putting in place a security outfit, AMOTEKUN, which he said would boost crime prevention in the region. On what to expect from WEBIC this year, Prophet Ayorinde said vigorous evangelism to win more souls for Christ.