  The children of His Royal Highness,  Eze Israel Okwu Kanu and Ugoeze Sally Meme Kanu have described their parents as people that lived an impeccable life. The family stated this at a commendation service for their parents at St Andrews Anglican Church Afaraukwu. Kanu’s family in a funeral oration noted that their parents were epitome of humility, service and people that defended the truth even at a great cost which was why they held various leadership and trustworthy positions. “In a country where people seek after fortune by every means possible; you both built a godly family of a healthy brood of boys and girls who loved the very ground on which you both trod.” On the love the couple shared while they lived, the family stated “the lives of Papa and Daada were a great success. They lived well, laughed often and loved much. They gained the respect of intelligent people and the love of children. Today, they are leaving the world a better place than they found it because freedom is in the air, the journey to the promised land and of hope,  freedom and peace is within touching distance. “Our consolation today is that we know for certain that Papa and Daada are resting in the presence of Almighty God CHUKWU OKIKE ABIAMA puru ime ihe n’ile qnd watching over us… What they accomplished in life, from this compound and in this village, will echo throughout history. ”  In his homily, the officiating minister, Rt. Rev. Geoffrey Obijuru Ibeabuchi, the Bishop of Umuahia Anglican Diocese who took his texts from Ecclesiastes 9 vs 55-56, Mark 8:36-37 and Romans 14:12 spoke on the topic “The living know that they will die”. Ibeabuchi while reminding Christians and other living that they will still stand before God in judgement to render account of their deeds, hence the need for them to live a godly family for the dead doesn’t have any need for material gains. Unlike the tension associated with the burial, the burial was peaceful  Kanu’s younger brother, Kanuta Okwu Kanu reading funeral oration of their parents Photo showing Nnamdi Kanu’s family members and the body of his parents arriving the St Andrews Anglican Church Afaraukwu Ibeku for a commendation service  Photos from the commendation service starting with a procession at 2:15pm      Photos of traditional rulers, and knights ladies of Knighthood at the commendation service in St Andrews Anglican Church Afaraukwu Photos from Afaraukwu community Ibeku, the country home of the leader of IPOB, Nnamdi Kanu as the parents’ burial holds today  Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe Deputy Senate Miniority leader and former governor of Anambra State, Peter Obi just arrived St. Andrews Anglican Church Afaraukwu where the funeral service for Nnamdi Kanu’s parents will be holding