 Solomon Dalung has given a rare insight about his workings when he held sway as the minister for youth and sports development, revealing that dealing with some vexed issues surrounding Nigerian football as well as leadership of Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) was tough. Dalung tenure which ended in May 2019 after his appointment in 2015, coincided with unprecedented shenanigans between the Minister of Sports and the NFF. Dalung told NationSport that one of the toughest decisions concerning the NFF was abiding with the Supreme Court judgement on the protracted leadership crisis between Amaju Pinnick and Chris Giwa. He said he had no ulterior motives and only abided with the order of the Supreme Court after consultation with Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and the Attorney General of the Federation. “Frankly I took my time before I followed the decision of the Supreme Court on the NFF,” declared. “After  the Supreme court judgement on the leadership of NFF and reversed  the matter to status quo  to go back to the decision of Jos Federal High Court which had earlier sacked the NFF Board and affirmed Chris Giwa as  president of NFF. “That was a very tough decision because not so many people even senior colleagues in the profession differed with me but I maintained my stand; and I own no one apology for my decision. ‘”When the judgement came I wrote to the Vice President and office of the Minister of Justice to seek for advice and they told me that rule of law is sacrosanct and I should comply with the judgement of the Supreme Court.” Dalung also said it is erroneous for anybody to claim that the NFF cannot be subjected to the law of the country, adding  the laws of the country supersedes  that of any international bodies such as FIFA  in relationship with Nigerian football. He explained: “But shortly after the Supreme Court decision, there was another letter from the office of the Justice Minister seeking to suggest something differently after I had acted. “There was pressure that i should reverse my earlier position but I chose to stand on the rule of law because to the best of knowledge as a lawyer, the decision of Supreme Court of any nation overrides the statues of a non-state actor. “FIFA is a non-state actor which is an NGO and as such, the statues of FIFA can never supersede the decision of the Supreme Court of Nigeria; though it was administratively over ruled, but that didn’t change my position. “That, I think was the toughest decision of my life as a minister, “Dalung added.