Polaris Bank has lent its voice to support the global “HeForShe” movement initiative of the United Nations (UN) in line with its Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy thrust, even as the bank’s CEO, Tokunbo Abiru, is nominated Gender Equality Champion by the Lagos State Ministry of Women Affairs & Poverty Alleviation in conjunction with UNWomen. The Polaris Bank CEO gave his commitment at the launch of the HeForShe campaign in Lagos State last week, where the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu flagged off the Campaign in the state. He reiterated the bank’s commitment to the advancement of gender equality, affirming his nomination to be a HeForShe Advocate/Champion. Mr. Abiru stated: “Our commitment to gender equality runs just as deep as our passion for creating value which is why it is one of the main focus of the Women and Youth Empowerment pillar of our Sustainability and CSR Policy.” According to him, “Women are the most deprived gender in the world and apart from constituting majority of the unbanked, they are also deprived on cultural grounds in developing economies.” He further stated: “In support of the objective of the HeForShe movement, we have and will continue to support, particularly the economic and financial growth of women and contribute to building an enabling environment for them.” Earlier, the Lagos State Commissioner for Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation, Mrs. Bolaji Dada, said: “HeForShe is a platform through which men and boys are encouraged to become agents of change,” adding: “It is an initiative for men to stand in solidarity with women to create a bold, visible and united force for gender equality.” While giving the opening remarks and overview of UN Women Work in Nigeria, Ms. Comfort Lamptey, who was represented by Mr. Lansana Wonneh, disclosed that Nigeria, in spite of its leadership role in Africa, lags behind when it comes to promoting gender equality and empowerment of women with an index of 0.85. He, however, extolled Lagos State for leading the drive for gender equality in the country. According to Mr. Wonneh, “The statistics of women in government in the state is perhaps the best in Nigeria and the launching of the HeForShe Campaign is indeed, a demonstration and commitment not only of the government, but also of the men and the women of Lagos State to gender equality and empowerment of women.” Lagos Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, pledged his support towards promoting the ideals of the HeForShe initiative in his administration, while also thanking the Commissioner for Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation and the UN representatives for the honour of being decorated as the number one HeForShe Advocate/Champion in the state. Grounded in the idea that gender inequality is an issue that affects all people—socially, economically and politically— HeForShe seeks to actively involve men and boys in a movement that was originally conceived as “a struggle for women by men”.