Experts have said the provisions of the Financial Act 2019, which was recently signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari, would benefit companies and players in the Fast-Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) subsector, especially Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). The tax and financial advisory experts as well as business executives, who gathered at the 10th Detail Business Series, organised by Detail Commercial Solicitors in Lagos, noted that exempting MSMEs with gross revenue of N25 million and below from Company Income Tax (CIT), would boost the contribution of MSMEs to growth. Specifically, Director, Transaction Advisory Services, Ernst & Young (EY), Abimbola Ogundare, said  as the largest producers of FMCGs in Nigeria, MSMEs account for the employment of about 80 per cent of employees, noting that the new incentives provided by the Finance Act would make the MSMEs grow and be more efficient, thus affecting  Nigerians in their employ. According to Ogundare, “From the GDP contribution standpoint, MSMEs in Nigeria contribute about 50 per cent of the nation’s GDP and that is significant and in line with what you see anywhere in emerging markets where MSMEs contribute around that range. MSMEs also contribute about 10 per cent of the total export in Nigeria and about 40 per cent of that export is cashews, cocoa and sesames.” However, Ogundare said though the government has exempted MSMEs whose gross revenue is N25 million and below from paying taxes, they should be brought into the nation’s tax net by getting them registered. Fiscal Policy Partner and West Africa Tax Leader, PwC, Taiwo Oyedele, who was the keynote speaker at the event, noted that the Finance Act is the first of its kind in the last 20 years, adding: “The Finance Act has over 100 amendments and amends seven different tax laws”. Oyedele urged businesses to manage their tax affairs by seeking to understand the Finance Act, assess its impact on their operations, implement the areas relevant to their businesses as well as review and revalidate their tax positions. On the purpose of the event, Ololade Ademoroti, Interface Officer at Detail stated that firm’s business series was born out of the desire to provide a robust platform to engage industry experts on topical issues. He noted that Detail, specialises in non-courtroom practice, and remains one of the top law firms in the country. Ademoroti stated that DETAIL had identified the need to discuss the Finance Act and its implication for businesses in different sectors of the Nigerian economy. Associate Partner, Detail, Chukwudi Ofili and Senior Associate, Detail, Anthony Ezeamama in a joint presentation while emphasising the changes made by the Finance Act to the Companies Income Tax Act, Personal Income Tax Act, Value Added Tax Act, Customs, Excise Tariff, Etc (Consolidation) Act, and the Stamp Duties Act said the development has implications for different industries in the economy including the energy and utilities sector; digital and electronic services, real estate investment companies, and banking and capital markets.