By Adekunle Yusuf  MyPharmacy, Nigeria’s fastest growing chain of pharmacies, launched with fanfare recently in Lagos, has been described as an initiative that is set to redefine the future of healthcare practice in Nigeria. The Registrar, Pharmacists Council of Nigeria (PCN), N. A. E. Mohammed, said the initiative that led to the coming together of brilliant minds across several sectors, especially franchise pharmacy owners and management teams, is a signal that there is the dawn of a new era in healthcare delivery. “I believe that MyPharmacy is one of the best strategies for the future of pharmacy in Nigeria,” he said, adding that the meeting, which provided the platform for discussions on the adoption of the franchise model by MyPharmacy, is a welcome development in Nigerian healthcare. The Registrar also urged the group to maintain the good standards set to guarantee clientele satisfaction and loyalty. “Having this characteristic will strengthen partner relationships and pave the way for more. MyPharmacy is setting the pace for the standard of community pharmacy. We are setting the standard for the future,” Desola of MyPharmacy Quadcare branch affirmed. MyPharmacy is the brainchild of Advantage Health Africa, a health tech company providing solutions across Africa, as a means to encourage collaboration in healthcare to provide maximum results for healthcare practitioners and clients.  With 51 branches across seven states in the country, the major focus of this initiative is to improve access to genuine and affordable medicines, the promoters of the novel initiative said. On the vision of MyPharmacy, Abimbola Adebakin, Chief Executive Officer, Advantage Health Africa, said the group was interested in the value adding advantages and testimonials from franchisees around Nigeria. “As a client, you know you will get guaranteed medicines because fake drugs cannot enter our scrutinised system. You will come in to meet a pharmacist that cares about you and addresses you as you want to be addressed. Increasingly, as a chain, we shall ensure our supply chain integrity with good traceability and ease of recall, especially through bulk purchasing from credible suppliers – you get better pricing and guaranteed quality,” Adebakin said. She reiterated that efforts would be maximised to ensure proper management, branding and training of team members through this collaborative strategy. “Advantage comes to all parties via this hybrid of brick and mortar with the award winning online ordering platform, my-medicines.com. The drive is strong at MyPharmacy to work in partnership with various service providers to provide top-notch in-store and online services including telemedicine, digital screening and relevant tests, while ensuring last mile sourcing and fulfillment for affordable and quality medicines,” she said. Since it began  in October 2019, MyPharmacy has grown over the past four months to 51 branches, and the vision is to expand to 1000 pharmacies by 2024, Adedotun Sulaiman, chairman, Advantage Health Africa, said. Sulaiman admitted their vision is to see MyPharmacy across Nigeria, setting the standard with its values and practices. He said his team was on the path to achieving these goals. “Pharmacy is not all about making money. It is about giving quality service to the community and MyPharmacy has given us the opportunity to serve the community better because with collaboration, we can serve the community better,” Uvie Ubrufih, owner of MyPharmacy JJC Branch, Benin City, said.