 Netflix yesterday said it will increase its investment in Nigeria’s creative community with the production of its first African original scripted series from Nigeria. The yet to be titled ‘Akin Omotoso Project’ is a six-part series directed by Akin, Daniel Oriahi and CJ Obasi. It will star Kate Henshaw and Ade Laoye in leading roles, with other Nollywood greats such as Richard Mofe-Damijo, Joke Silva, Fabian Adeoye Lojede, Kehinde Bankole, Ayoola Ayolola, Toyin Oshinaike, Goodness Emmanuel, Ireti Doyle, Bimbo Akintola, Tope Tedela and Ijeoma Grace Agu, and fresh faces. Set in modern-day Nigeria, and shot in Lagos, this drama tells the story of Kemi, a goddess reincarnated as a human, to avenge her sister’s death. But first, she must learn how to use and harness her super powers to defeat her enemies and save her family from destruction. The series will be produced by Rififi Pictures. Over the last year, Netflix has started to invest in the creative community – bringing Nigerian stories to audiences all around the world. These include popular movies such as Merry Men, The Real Yoruba Demons, The Wedding Party 2, King of Boys; Nollywood classics like The CEO, October 1 and The Figurine; Mokalik all by renowned director Kunle Afolayan. These much-loved movies will join Nollywood favorites such as Chief Daddy, Lion Heart and The Bling Lagosians. Ted Sarandos, Netflix’s Chief Content Officer said: “Movies like King of Boys, Merry Men and The Bling Lagosian have shown how much our members love Nigerian movies. So we’re incredibly excited to be investing in Made-in-Nigeria stories – bringing them to audiences all around the world.” Dorothy Ghettuba who leads African Originals at Netflix, said: “I’m excited that in the same week that we’re launching Queen Sono, we had the opportunity to be here in Lagos with Nigerian storytellers to share plans of our first Nigerian original production. Our continent has a wealth of diversity, multiplicity and beauty in stories that have yet to be told, and we want to be top of mind for creators in Nigeria, especially when it comes to stories they haven’t had a chance to tell yet.”