Praise Olowe Over the years, death has taken loads of notable stars. Although their memories live forever, there are many of us that miss watching their movies. These are heroes who built the industry and made Nollywood movies interesting for many of us while growing up Here is remembering some notable celebrities whose movies we enjoyed, enjoy and miss watching: (1) Sam Loco Efe Popular for the kind of comic relief he brings into movies, Sam Loco Efe is one Nollywood stars that many of us can never forget in a hurry. He made movies look so real and different. He was given birth to on December 25, 1945, in Enugu. Sam Loco, however, died at the age of 66 on August 7, 2011 in a hotel in Owerri where he was editing a film. (2) Pete Eneh This is another notable star whose death left a space in the Nollywood industry. Pete Eneh was one of the pioneers of the era of videos movies in Nigeria. He featured in over 50 Nollywood movies. He died on November 15, 2012 due to the pain of living with an amputated leg. Some of his movies are Tears of a Prince, Beloved and My saviour among many others. (3) Amaka Igwe Amaka Igwe was a film maker and broadcasting executive. She was recognised as one of the second-generation filmmakers and was also one of the pioneers of video film era in Nigeria. She sadly died of asthma attack in Enugu at the age of 51 in April 2014. (4) Ashley Nwosu Ashley Nwosu was a popular actor. He was born on November 21, 1954 and died on April 21, 2011. He was a really prominent actor who died after a brief illness. (5) Funmi Martins Funmi Martins was unarguably a shining star in the Yoruba movie industry. She was born in September 1963 in Ilesha Osun state. Before venturing into acting, she tried modelling. Funmi Martins, however, became serious with her acting career and in 1993 she featured in her first movie called Nemesis. Although she didn’t live too long, she starred in so many movies. Funmi Martins died at 38, according to medical reports, of cardiac arrest. She is the mother of popular movie star Mide Martins.