 United Kingdom, Canada, United States and South Africa take the prime slots of locations where many Nigerians now call home. Take a flight to London, Birmingham, Liverpool and Manchester— all cities in the United Kingdom— and you will bow for efficiency and functionality. Canada, with its freezing weather, receives immigrants regularly because things work. As cold as Saskatchewan is, not a few Nigerians are on the waiting list for its invitation to come and be residents. New York, Wisconsin, Chicago, Houston, Austin, Maryland, Baltimore, Charlotte and other American cities bubble with life. Many say of New York City: ‘if you can make it there you can make it anywhere’. It is homage to its ruggedness. It is the fitting home for fast-talking, loud, aggravating persons. Washington cuts the image of a befitting capital for a great nation of diverse people. Skyscrapers, well-laid out road network and all stare you in the face. Madison is nothing like DC. This capital of Wisconsin is a simple city. It has storey buildings which I honestly cannot call skyscrapers. Its road networks are superb. Its university is a definition of a conducive environment to learn. Its hotels tower into the sky moderately. The craziest of them all is Chicago. There is nothing simple at all about this city. The hotels here are almost uncountable. It reminds me so much of New York, with its skyscrapers, rail system and road networks that can sometimes get locked down. This city has a reputation for crime and corruption. Chicago, which is President Barrack Obama’s home, is in a state rated the third most corrupt in U.S. These cities’ airports – Dulles in Washington, DC Reagan Washington National Airport, O’Hare in Chicago and Dane County Regional Airport in Madison – are good examples of functionality. South African cities, such as Durban, Johannesburg and Cape Town, glitter. Potable water is a right, not a privilege. Electricity failure will make the front pages of dailies when experienced. Roads are well-tarred. Salaries are paid when due. Human rights are largely respected. South Africa remains a model in Africa, and is a leader. On a continent with people struggling to make ends meet, South Africa is bound to entice people willing to escape the concentration camps that many an African nation is. Given South Africa’s elegance, it should not surprise anyone that many Nigerians have chosen it as their second home. Nigerians there comprise of the good, the bad and the ugly. The good guys are always in the majority. The bad and the ugly are always in the minority. But, in a world where evil sells, the bad boys catch the headlines all the time. It is hard to blame an average Nigerian’s lamentation of the poor state of things back home after experiencing functionality at its best abroad. The Nation on Sunday Deputy Editor Olayinka Oyegbile came back from Houston some days back. In a post on social media, he lamented lip service to infrastructural development back home. “Who bears the brunt or pays for the loss? This is Obadeyi Bus stop on the so called Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway. This spot has been bad for the better part of 2019 and there were promises that it would be fixed after the rainy season. This is almost the end of January with the rain coming soon. The road has remained unfilled waiting for the next rain and another round of excuses. “The poor man bears the brunt. Two vehicles overturned their contents because of the bad road. One of them had to employ the services of armed security men to guard its overturned wares from looters. Yet the government continues to give excuses. This is home and reality, goodbye to the dreams for now.” Not a few have refused to return home after finding their way abroad, thus making visa procurement a Herculean task for their compatriots. The reasons are not far-fetched. Many agree on the fact that Nigeria should have gone farther than it is. Our situation is so precarious that citizens are ready to die trying to get to Europe through the Sahara deserts. One in three Nigerians lives in poverty, which represents thirty-two per cent of the population. Thirty-seven per cent of children suffer from malnutrition. Half of the Nigerian population use unsafe or unimproved sanitation. Nigeria is 43rd on the sustainable development goal index. Poverty is concentrating on fast-growing countries like Nigeria and by 2050, more than 40 per cent of Nigeria will still be under poverty’s jackboot. Our slot as the country with the second-highest number of deaths of children under the age of five is guaranteed. And according to the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), no fewer than 250,000 children in Nigeria die on their first day of life, the second highest in the world. Sadly, a child born in Nigeria today, no thanks to this situation, is likely to live to the year 2074 while a child born in Denmark is likely to live until the 22nd century! The poverty in the land has led to the proliferation of what my colleague Hannah Ojo calls ‘pastorpreneurs’. Fake men of God capitalise on people’s gullibility to smile to the banks. They dupe the people in the name of God. Religion has become an instrument of enslavement by men pretending to speak for God. One ‘man of God’ relishes showing us funny theatrics, including getting the devil to visit his church and his technical team interviewing the devil. Many have sublet their lives to con artists posing as ‘men of God’, thus suspending the use of their brains. ’Big Brother Nigeria’ cannot vouch for 24 hours of uninterrupted power supply. Many areas in Nigeria have not had electricity supply for months, and the Distribution Companies (DisCos) often insist they pay bills for service not rendered As people are being messed up on the religious terrain, the leaders also daily rape the people. Leaders, who had nothing before coming into offices, suddenly become overnight billionaires, owing businesses everywhere and stashing money in numbered accounted overseas. They forget that power is transient. For any society to make progress, the judiciary is key. Justice must not just be done; it must be seen to have been done. Here, judges are said to shamelessly collect bribe. Cases of bribery and corruption in the bench are rife. It is almost a taboo for individuals to win cases against the state. If this madness continues, leaders will continue to ride roughshod over the people whom they pretend to be representing. Our leaders do not see the people as the ultimate. And it is not too late for the people to take back their rightful position. Collectively, we must ensure that our leaders do not take us for granted. We must ask for our dues and ensure we get them. While not asking us to be violent, when we insist and refuse to be intimidated, the leaders will have no choice but to let our will prevail. Examples abound in more advanced societies where the people have had their way through non-violent means. In Lagos, Nigeria’s commercial capital, the traffic and roads are crazy. The city’s streets are congested. Many people are brash and bellicose. The nights are scary. Poverty has fun on its streets and most of Nigeria. Lagos is a place where millions of hopeful people come in search of dwindling resources. Most times people have to drive upwards of three or four hours in exasperating gridlock to get to and from work. ‘Big Brother Nigeria’ cannot vouch for 24 hours of uninterrupted power supply. Many areas in Nigeria have not had electricity supply for months, and the Distribution Companies (DisCos) often insist they pay bills for service not rendered.