 The Deputy National President, National Parent Teacher Association of Nigeria (NAPTAN), Chief Adeolu Ogunbanjo, has said going digital in the education sector will necessitate rapid development in the country. According to him, technology is at the heart of all spheres of endeavour all over the world and countries serious about rapid development should not be left behind in this age. “These days, globally, a good number of things are technologically-driven. Countries who don’t want to be left behind should be technology-compliant, particularly in the area of education. “Even at the national level here in the country, President Muhammadu Buhari changed the Ministry of Communications to the Ministry of Communications and Digital Technology,” he said in an interview with The Nation. Ogunbanjo praised Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu for his commitment to transforming education in the state and the EkoExcel initiative, which he said was a commendable effort in digitizing education. “The moment Governor Sanwo-Olu assumed office, he reiterated his commitment to education by not only boosting the budgetary allocation but launching and implementing the EKOEXCEL  initiative which has been widely received.He ,together with his deputy, an ICT technocrat,has delivered on their promise to make education digital,” he said.  Ogunbanjo urged other states to emulate Lagos. “Some states in the country have attempted their own models. For instance, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola introduced  the Opon Imo ,but it was not well driven and sustained. Anambra has also tried something similar. It is, however, expected that EKOEXCEL  will be properly sustained even beyond this current  administration because efforts are geared towards it sustainability with the involvement of the Lagos  State Universal Basic Education Board(LSUBEB).” He urged other states that have technological models in place to transform education to ensure their sustainability. According to him, sustaining such models is quite important after implementation. Ogunbanjo, however, urged the Lagos SUBEB to appoint parent representatives according to the law establishing Basic Education Commission in the state. “Parents should have representatives according to  the law in the State Basic Education Board.  Though they call us for meetings, the law establishing Basic Education Commission states that there should be parent representatives in the state government education board,” he said. 