 CHINA yesterday reported 143 Coronavirus deaths although there was also a dip in new cases. Simultaneously, government announced new anti-disease measures while businesses reopened following sweeping controls that idled much of the economy. However, France reported Europe’s first death from the new virus. In Nigeria, the Centre for Disease Control yesterday said five returning travellers from China into the country have tested negative for the novel Coronavirus, Covid19. The victim in France was a Chinese tourist from Hubei province, where the disease emerged in December. China reported 2,641 new cases in the 24 hours through midnight Friday, raising the country’s total to 66,492. Mainland China’s death toll rose to 1,523. The number of new cases was down from the 5,090 in the previous 24-hour period after authorities changed the basis for counting patients. Numbers of new cases have fluctuated, fueling optimism the disease might be under control and warnings such hopes are premature. The government suspended most access to Wuhan, the city at the center of the outbreak, on January 23. Restrictions have expanded to cities with a total of 60 million people in the broadest anti-disease measures ever imposed. Restaurants, shops and other businesses nationwide were ordered to close. The Lunar New Year holiday was extended to keep factories and offices closed, but officials have been ordered to revive business activity as economic losses mount. Authorities have announced measures to try to curb new infections as millions of workers crowd into planes, trains and buses to return to densely populated cities. Under the new measures, people returning to Beijing will have to isolate themselves at home for 14 days, according to a notice published Friday. It said people who fail to comply will face legal consequences but gave no details. A health official appealed to travelers to check themselves and report others who have symptoms. “Before returning to school or work by train, road or plane, first judge your health status. Do you have a cold or fever?” said He Qinghua of the China Centers for Disease Control at a news conference. COVID-19, a disease stemming from a new form of coronavirus, has spread to more than two dozen countries. The 80-year-old Chinese tourist who died in France was hospitalized Jan. 25 with a lung infection, according to Health Minister Agnes Buzyn. His daughter also fell ill but authorities say she is expected to recover. On Friday, Egypt reported the first infection on the African continent. Meanwhile, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control has said five returning travellers from China into the country have tested negative for the novel Coronavirus, Covid19. The agency said its protocol is to test all returning travellers from China with symptoms. The NCDC has reiterated that there is yet no confirmed cases of Coronavirus in the country and urged citizens to disregard and discourage unfounded rumours. In a tweet, the agency advised that any person that has returned from China within the last 14 days should stay indoors and avoid contact with other people. The virus originated late last year in China, where it has since infected more than 66,000 people and killed more than 1,500. Three deaths from the virus have so far been recorded outside mainland China  in the Philippines, Hong Kong and Japan. The first death outside Asia was confirmed by France yesterday.