Taiwo Alimi captures the exploit of Nigeria/America NBA 2018 draft, Joseph Okogie and how representing Nigeria at the 2019 FIBA Basketball World Cup changed his life. With the recent engagement of NBA experienced coach, Mike Brown to tinker the Nigeria men’s basketball team, D’Tigers, to the Tokyo 2020 Olympics, Nigeria-American NBA player, Josh Okogie has set his sight on attending his first games in style. The Minnesota Timberwolves shooting guard, who has integrated fully into the Wolves family following his draft in 2018, is happy to be invited to the Nigerian team to the 2019 FIBA basketball World Cup and hopes to use his experienced at the NBA to lift the team higher. Nigeria is attending its third consecutive Olympics games this summer. “My selection to the Nigeria team really helped; It really helped me a lot, for sure,” he volunteered in a lively conversation with The Nation.“  I took responsibility with the D’Tigers, and I worked really well all summer with the guys and the staff of the national team. “I was given some freedom with the national team, and I think the experience of this summer was very good, and I know I came back to Minny with more confidence and knowledge about the game. “I am very happy to play with Nigeria, and I know that my role will be more and more important.  I’m looking forward to next summer to go to Tokyo and compete in the Olympics.”  Okogie migrated with his family to the United States when he was three years old and the family settled in Snellville, Georgia, where he found basketball at Shiloh High School. By the time he moved to college; Georgia Tech, Okogie had matured to averaging 16.1 points 5.4 rebounds per game and led his school’s scoring points even as a freshman.  In 2018, he signed with Wolves after he got the NBA draft and became a regular player by 2019. The Wolves’ back confirmed that he was a precious shadow worker (11 points, 3 rebounds, 3 assists) last year when he was glued to Kyrie Irving in the match between the Nets and the Wolves. He also made an impression on watchers as he did his best to hinder Irving. He said of the match: “I knew I was going to be tagged by Kyrie Irving, so I was even more focused than ever.  He’s a hell of a customer, and I didn’t have to wait until I was in the NBA to figure it out (smile). I tried to follow his movements, but to be honest with you; it’s more the instinct that guides the movements in this kind of moment. “I’ve never worked anything special to be solid in defence; I just do it on my gut and give it my all.  Defence is instinct above all. I don’t know yet how Kyrie got the ball back after putting one knee on the ground, but I did my job because he didn’t score.” Hailed by Wolves coach Ryan Saunders after the match, the 6’4 inches player said he has a bigger plan for himself, his team and the NBA: “I’m just trying to show match after match that I can become an important player on this team to help the Wolves win.  I know I can bring a lot, and I also know that the coach wants my impact to be on the defence side first. “I know that the coach will put me most often on the best opposing attacker, and I am always ready to fulfil this mission.  I am good in this group, I feel that I am progressing and I am happy with what I am doing. “I’m not yet expected to have an impact on both sides of the field, but I want to prove over and over again that I can become a very solid player in the NBA.” He believed that been put against tough players as Nets’ Karl-Anthony Towns, who completed long distance game with his 3-point 7 of 11, has helped him tremendously. “I know what Karl-Anthony is capable of, so I was not taken aback so much. He really has become an ultra-complete player and I think he’s going to make a lot more progress.  Tonight, indoors, like long distance, he did what he wanted. “Karl-Anthony is a machine; he is one of the best interiors in the league.  Putting 7 of 11 3-point is just huge for a guy his size! We learn a lot from him and I think this is just the start.  It will help us go far and have a great season.” So what is he expected from the Wolves for this season? “We would like to go to the playoffs, while showing great play. We form a group of guys who want to work hard and who seek to progress day after day. “We are going to give everything to get there, because we want to see the fervour of the city and of our fans this season extend beyond the second week of April.  We can do it, and we will do it,” Okogie added.