The National Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus, has urged the new Bayelsa State governor, Senator Douye Diri to run an all-inclusive government. Secondus spoke in Abuja on Friday while receiving Diri and his deputy, Senator Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo at the party’s campaign headquarters, Legacy House shortly after the two received their certificate of return from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). He called on the governor to establish Truth and Reconciliation committee, with a view to reconciling aggrieved PDP members and those that defected to other parties after the November 16 governorship election. Stating that it’s God that gives power not any man of His choice, Secondus described PDP’s victory at the Supreme Court in the Bayelsa election as a long journey to freedom. The party chair said, “Now is the time for us to come together, especially the people of Bayelsa State. It is not in the falling, but it is in rising after a fall. There will be no victor, there will also be no vanquished”. He stressed the need for the governor and his deputy to embrace everyone, regardless of their political leanings. “We believe in the rule of law and our matters are very clear. If it is on point of law, no argument, no protest. But if it is not point of law, we will ask questions. “We don’t just make protests or argue or issue statements for the fun of it. If we have ground, we will ask questions, and on this matter in Bayelsa State, it was on point of law and the rule of law has taken place. “So go and be good ambassadors of the nation and your state and the party. There shall not be any rancour. Call all the elders, all the youths of the Bayelsa together to work. “It is not the party but the platform. The service you are going to render to the people of Bayelsa should be uppermost in your mind and that is how to build a nation. “The PDP stands for the unity of our country, the PDP stands for all-inclusiveness, the PDP stands for the future of the young generation of our country. “We will work with you and we believe that as you go back now for the swearing in ceremony, Bayelsa people will give you all the necessary corporation,” the party chair said.