Nigeria’s D’Tigress will be heading to Tokyo with Ezinne Kalu playing a key role for the reigning FIBA Women’s Afrobasket Champion with 16.0points and 4.3 assists having almost led her side to a memorable triumph over United States on the final day, and the 27-year-old believes the world would see a new Nigerian side in Tokyo, Japan. Excited with the way the team competed fiercely against United States in their final group match of the FIBA Women’s Olympic Qualifying Tournament which ended on Sunday in Belgrade, the point guard said the team is ready to stun the world when the Olympic Games tips off in July. “I am so happy because this experience is something amazing and we worked so hard for it. The loss against the Americans was like a win for us considering our journey from the World Cup in Spain last year to this stage. It took so much for us to be here and it was an unbelievable experience; I believe we will see a new team in Tokyo,” Kalu said. She added: “We just want to show what Africa has a lot to offer particularly West Africa. The World Cup was our foot on the door and now we have come closer to the door and we are going to Tokyo as African champion.” The Coach of team, Oti Hughley described the matches against Serbia and United States as unique saying the games have prepared the team for what to expect in Tokyo. “The two matches (Serbia and U.S.) are unique based on the experience. “With the way we played, I am humbled to know what these players can do against any team. Also before the tournament, we were not competitive but now I am starting to see evidence that with the right preparation, you will be astounded with what we can do. I am excited about the possibility of doing well in Tokyo,” he said. The 12-team that qualified for the Olympics are Australia, Belgium, Canada, China, France, Japan, Korea, Nigeria, Puerto Rico, Serbia, Spain and USA. The draw for the event holds on March 21, while the 2020 Tokyo Women’s Olympic Basketball Tournament takes place from July 27 to August 9.