The dust over the Supreme Court verdict on the Imo State governorship election has not settled. ONYEDI OJIABOR AND SANNI ONOGU profile the All Progressives Congress (APC) deputy governorship candidate, Senator Biobarakuma Degi-eremienyo, whose multiple identities led to the party misfortune.  Senator Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo, for all intents and purposes, is not among the first eleven in the Senate. Although he doubles as vice chairman Senate committee on Gas Resources and Senate special duties committee, Degi-Eremienyo, is not one of the shakers and movers in the red chamber. The Bayelsa East, All Progressives Congress Senator, is also not known to have sponsored any bill or moved any motion. He fits perfectly into the horde of nay sayers in the upper chamber. He sat quietly during the few occasions he was sighted in the Senate chamber. Perhaps he may be excused for his apparent legislative inaction in the hallowed chamber because he is one of the green horns, but morning they say, tells the market. Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo may not have found his feet in the Senate, he shot himself to limelight in the negative sense of it on February 13, 2020. He brought a monumental dislocation, some say calamity, in the politics of Bayelsa State through his carelessness in the alleged duplicity of his names. Through multiplicity of names, one of which is said to be his title, he denied himself the exalted position of deputy governor and robbed his party, the APC, the opportunity of ruling Bayelsa State since the creation of the oil rich state in 1996. The governorship candidate of the APC in the November 16, 2019 election in Bayelsa State, David Lyon who roundly won the election suffered incalculable loss when the Supreme Court found his candidature deficient due to the alleged sin of his running mate, Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo. The undoing of Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo in filing multiple names discovered by the Supreme Court to be fraudulent, became also Lyon’s albatross because they ran a joint ticket in the governorship election. Whether Lyon can ever get over the shock of the event of February 13, 2020 is not known. The story goes that Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo allegedly took short cut and armed himself with fake certifications. He went ahead to submit the educational certificates with different names to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). This was the beginning of his problem. May be it should have been fair enough if the problem consumed him alone. No.  The problem consumed his principal, Lyon and by extension, the APC. First, a Federal High Court disqualified Biobarakuma from contesting the November 2019 election on account of multiple unrelated names. The Appeal Court on the other hand allowed his qualification, permitting him to contest the governorship election as Lyon’s running mate. The Appeal Court ruled that a case of forgery was not established against Degi-Eremienyo because he had done the required ‘change of name’ as published in a national newspaper–a basic requirement of law you may say. If you thought the case was over, you lie. With the Federal High Court ruling, maybe Biobarakuma, knowing the truth, should have recused himself from the election. He did not. On February 13, the Supreme Court did the unimaginable. The apex court finally, to the consternation of decent minded Nigerians, decided that Biobarakuma was not qualified to be Lyon’s running mate due to discrepancies in his names. No doubt, the political cost to Biobarakuma, Lyon and to the APC, is immeasurable to say the least. The apex court summarily directed INEC to issue the certificate of return to the candidate with the next highest number of votes. With the ruling, the political fortunes changed. A party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), that flatly lost the election was shot to the driving seat. Senator Duoye Diri after losing the November 16 election bounced back to the chagrin of many in Bayalsa State. He has since been inaugurated in Lyon’s stead. One oily finger in an oily state has soiled the entire body. The PDP claimed in its suit against the APC that Biobarakuma’s name was written as Degi Biobara in his primary school certificate while the document from his secondary education bore Adegi Biobarakumo. It said that the name changed to Degi Biobarakuma in his university certificate while the name metamorphosed to Degi Biobarakuma Wangaha in his MBA certificate. With the turn of events, Senator Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo may have joined the growing rank of Nigerians who lost their positions to alleged certificate forgery. The February 13, 2020 development in Bayelsa State was also a costly lesson to political parties to look beyond the surface in screening their aspirants for elective positions.