Exercising the power granted to it by Section 225(a) of the 1999 Constitution, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has deregistered 74 political parties that have failed to meet the requirements for listing on its register, in the wake of the last year’s elections and the recent rerun. In this report, Deputy Political Editor RAYMOND MORDI and Assistant Editor LEKE SALAUDEEN examine why more parties will continue to mushroom, amid the preparations for future polls.  FOLLOWING their dismal performance in last year’s general elections and the rerun  that came in its wake, the recent delisting of political parties from the register of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) was largely expected. Out of the 73 political parties that participated in the last presidential elections, only about five got a reasonable number of votes. Eleven parties did not even bother to field candidates in the race; a total of 91 parties were given the go-ahead by INEC to participate in the election. With multiple parties being registered and allowed to participate in the political process, Nigerians ought to have more options to choose from in the race for different elective positions. But, so far, that has not been the case. The other parties can hardly muster enough support to challenge the dominance of the big two. For a largely illiterate society like Nigeria, it is a source of confusion for the electorate. It also increases the cost of organising the election, in terms of logistics and ensuring that all parties are given equal opportunities on the ballot paper. It was against this background that INEC leadership under Prof. Mahmood Yakubu last Thursday descended on 74 parties that were adjudged to have performed below expectation. The commission affirmed that only 16 political associations met the requirements to be on the list of registered political parties. The parties are: the Accord Party (AP), the Action Alliance (AA), the African Action Congress (AAC), the African Democratic Congress (ADC), the African Democratic Party (ADP), the All Progressives Congress (APC), the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), the Allied Peoples Movement (APM), the Labour Party (LP) and the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP). The others are the National Rescue Movement (NRM), the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP), the Social Democratic Party (SDP), the Young Progressive Party (YPP) and the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP). The issue of deregistration of political parties has been a ding dong affair. Prior to the amendment of the 1999 Constitution in 2018, dubbed the Fourth Alteration to the Constitution (Section 225A), INEC was empowered by the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended) to deregister parties that do not appear to enjoy the backing of the electorates after general elections. It was on this premise that the commission deregistered 39 political parties between 2011 and 2013. But some of the affected parties challenged the power of INEC to deregister them, particularly on the grounds that the Electoral Act is inferior to the constitution, which bestows fundamental rights on all Nigerians, including that of freedom of association. Thus, subsequently, the court ordered INEC to reinstate the parties. To sanitise the electoral environment, the 8th National Assembly amended the constitution to empower the commission to deregister political parties on the following grounds: breach of any requirements as political parties; failure to win at least 25 per cent of the votes cast in one state in a presidential election or 25 per cent of the votes cast in one local government area in a governorship election; and failure to win at least one ward in a chairmanship election; one seat in a national or state assembly election; or one seat in a councillorship election. In the current deregistration exercise, 75 parties are affected. But one of them, the Action Peoples Party (APP), filed a suit in court challenging INEC and also obtained an injunction restraining the commission from deregistering it. As a result, INEC has to suspend action on its deregistration, pending the determination of the substantive case by the court. Prof. Yakubu also said that the new political party registered after the 2019 general elections, the Boot Party (BP), will continue to exist. One of the affected political parties, the United Progressives Party (UPP) said it was taken aback by INEC’s action. Its National Chairman, Chief Chekwas Okorie said INEC erred by not going according to the dictates of the constitution. He said over 30 states have not held local government elections since the amended Electoral Act became operational and that INEC’s deregistration exercise was hasty. In a press statement, he said that INEC officials visited the party’s national secretariat on verification exercise and “confirmed that the UPP has well-appointed national secretariat met all the criteria of functionality”. He added: “They commended party as belonging to the first six political party national secretariats in all considerations. Our National Executive Committee members from 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) was on hand with all the verification and identification requirements. These are the major requirements of the amended Electoral Act for a political party to remain on the register of political parties. “The other requirements include winning any election in a general election or winning the chairmanship or councillorship contest in a state local government election etc. Over 30 states in Nigeria have not held their local government elections since the amended Electoral Act became operational before the obviously vexatious deregistration of political parties. INEC has inflicted severe and avoidable damage to Nigeria’s democracy. “Notwithstanding the illegality of the action of the commission, it defies logic that the commission will deregister 74 political parties that are already growing and gaining traction in the democratic space while at the same ready to register over 100 new political parties that will start from scratch to learn the ropes and begin to promote their symbols and manifestos the electorate for subsequent elections that are around the corner.” Okorie said the commission should be more worried about the poor voter participation in the 2019 general elections, which is below 35 per cent national average. He advised INEC to expand the political space, instead of constricting it. He added: “INEC should be deepening our democratic culture and ethos, instead of destabilizing it. Our National Executive Committee will meet soon to decide on our next line of action.” However, some legal practitioners and political scientists who commented on the matter hailed INEC for its decision. For instance, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Malam Yusuf Ali hailed INEC’s decision to expunge the parties from the register, saying the commission’s action is legal. He said the electoral law stipulates that a political party must win some votes in the general elections and that any party that does not meet the set standard will be removed from the register. He said: “In a country where the level of illiteracy is high, how would voters identify the party of their choice in a ballot paper with 90 political parties? I see it as an abuse of democratic space to have over 90 political parties on the ballot paper when we know that basically there are about three viable parties in the country.” A political scientist, Professor Bayo Okunade said: “The political parties are too many. There were parties that didn’t feature in the last general elections and there are those that will not contest in the next general elections. I was persuaded that INEC acted rightly by applying the criteria for deregulation.” However, Okunade, a lecturer in the Department of Political Science, University of Ibadan, added: “To me, I don’t believe it is the responsibility of INEC to register political parties. We should allow parties to spring up and disappear if they don’t have followership. Most of the 74 parties deregistered would have died naturally because they don’t have followership. Part of the problem is that every political party wants to seek high position like governor and president, instead of concentrating on the grassroots. In Britain, there are parties that contest local government election and win.”  He said there was a time when INEC used to pay a grant to political parties, “but that is no longer the case”. He added: “Earlier, people advocated the registration of parties that meet INEC requirements, but now we are complaining that they are too many. This is one of the things we need to review in our constitution and the Electoral Act.” Former Vice President, Nigeria Bar Association (NBA), Mr Monday Ubani said INEC’s action is a welcome development, because “the political space was saturated by mushroom parties that are not adding value to our democratic system”. He said the long list of parties on ballot papers delayed the announcement of election results during the general elections because the returning officers have to announce the votes scored by each party. He added: “The most annoying is that most of these parties scored 10 or zero votes. It took days before the final results could be announced because the process was cumbersome, given the number of parties that contested. “For a political party that has no electoral value, there is no reason to retain it in the political register. Political parties must contest and win elections if they must be relevant in the system. What is the significance of a political party that cannot win ward election? Striking their names out of the register is good riddance. What are we doing with 90 political parties? If INEC has the power to register political parties, it should also have the power to deregister. The electoral body should set out guidelines of what qualified a party to be registered and what could lead to deregistration.” A constitutional lawyer, Realwan Okpanachi said the position of the law changed when the 1999 Constitution, through the Fourth Alteration, No 9 Act, 2017, was enacted in 2017 by President Muhammadu Buhari. He said the President’s assent conferred on INEC the power to deregister political parties by amending Section 225 of the Constitution. He said: “By the said amendment and the introduction of Section 225, INEC can now deregister political parties on grounds of breach of any requirements for registration.” Other observers believe the ding affair would continue, as more political parties are likely to emerge as the country approaches the next general elections in 2023. This is because the process of registering new parties is not too stringent and desperate politicians with deep pockets would always find ways to fulfil such conditions. In 1999 general elections, only three parties – the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) and the Alliance for Democracy (AD) – were the key actors in the electoral process. Of the three parties, the PDP had a wider spread and could muster enough support nationwide to win. In 2003, the number increased to 20, but the PDP remained dominant. This elicited a loud cry from the people, who felt that more participation by other political parties would provide better choices. But, over the years, the increasing number of political associations joining the race has not broken the monopoly of the dominant parties and promoted democracy, as expected. Not only has it not resulted in free and fair elections, but it has also led to more challenges for the electoral umpire. By 2011, the problem increased to the extent that INEC under the chairmanship of Professor Attahiru Jega had to deregister some of the parties because they were not adding any value to the system. 