SHAGIDIGBI: I am Ashagidigbi, a pensioner. I have not received my September 2019 pay. Kindly investigate the problem with Polaris Bank. All other banks have credited their pensioners. This happened last month. Are they going distressed? Please do something. PTAD: Several phone calls were made to the pensioner without success.The pensioner is required to send hard copies of his BVN, Verification acknowledgement slip and bank statement from July 2019 to date (stamped and signed). FILANI: My name is Filani, a federal pensioner. I use Polaris Bank. My September 2019 pension is yet to be paid, a week after those using other banks have got theirs. PTAD: Several phone calls were made to the pensioner without sucess. The pensioner is required to send hard copies of his BVN, Verification acknowledgement slip and bank statement from July 2019 to date (stamped and signed). ODUSHOLU: I am Odusholu. I served and retired at Federal Ministry of Transport, Lagos on level 06 in 1977. Up till now my pension is N8115.67. The national minimum wage had been increased thrice after I retired. The last was N18,000 and the new minimum wage is N30,000. Kindly help me through PTAD to correct the mistakes. PTAD: The pensioner was contacted and advised to provide a copy of his pensioner’s verification acknowledgement slip to enable the department review his complaint. FATAI: I retired from the Nigeria Customs Service in December 2003. My complaint is the stoppage of my monthly pension from January 2016 to date. I have made many trips to Abuja over this problem. The latest one was on Tuesday, June 21, 2019. I made another trip to PTAD Abuja on their invitation earlier extended to me on Monday, June 13, 2019 through one of their officials to come to PTAD Abuja to sort out the matter. PTAD officials sorted out my file. They requested and collected my details, such as retirement letter, appointment letter, account number, statement of account from January 2016 to May 2019, among others. But up till now, I have not heard anything from PTAD. Please help me, I am in penury and dying. PTAD: The pensioner is to provide a copy of his pensioner’s verification acknowledgement slip and bank statement from January 2016 to date (stamped and signed) to enable us investigate his complaint. ADIGUN: My name is Adigun and my PFA is First Guarantee.  The issue I want to discuss affects all contributory pensioners who were Osun State Government employees that retired in 2016 to date. None of these sets have received either gratuity or pension since they retired. The real problem we are having is not known as we were being fed with lies by various concerned PFAs from time to time. Kindly deal into this and advise us on the way out of this predicament. PENCOM: The relevant Department would require the PIN of the complainant to assist them further. BENJAMIN: I am Benjamin. I retired in 2006 under the old NEPA/PHCN and by transition from NELMCO to PTAD. My monthly pension of January and March 2015 were omitted. I went to PTAD five times and did all what I was told to do but to my surprise, each time I went there, they would tell me ‘no fund’ Please intervene for me. PTAD: The pensioner is required to submit his bank statement from July 2014 to date to PTAD Office Abuja, including his complaint to enable us investigate and resolve his complaint. ISA: Good evening, Madam. This is from one of the pre-1996 Railway pensioner in Nasarawa State. My name is Isa. Our 18 -month arrears (part of 52 months) since the administration of former President Goodluck Jonathan are yet to be cleared. Also, Railway pensioners are the least paid nationwide. Kindly use your good offices to help to solve our problems. We thank you for being there for us. PTAD: It is an assumed liability by a group of pensioners in the NRC. The group is yet to forward any supporting documents. ALICE: My name is Alice. Well-done The Nation for your concern for pensioners. I did verification since August 2017 but PTAD has not paid me till date. Several pensioners have got their pension. I am a state pensioner with federal share. I retired on April 30, 2008 without payment till date. Kindly assist. Thank you. PTAD: The pensioner’s complaint has been investigated. She will receive payment as funds are allocated and released by the Federal Government. ASUQUO: I am Asuquo from Akwa Ibom State. Please, what are the rules and regulations of payment for Federal Government retirees? Secondly, I retired in April, this year when will my accrued right be paid? PENCOM: The rules and regulation for payment of Federal Government’s retirement benefits under the CPS starts by participating in the Commission’s pre-retirement verification and enrolment. The prospective retiree/retiree needs to contact the Pension Desk Officer (PDO) of his/her MDA to get the documents for enrolment. He/she is also required to come along with the PDO to the enrolment centre for his/her attestation. After the enrolment, the retirement benefits are determined and paid into the RSA of the retiree based on the information provided by the retiree during enrolment. But please note that retirement benefits are paid subject to release of funds by the Federal Government for payment of accrued rights.