KEHINDE OLULOYE With Valentine just days away, you are thinking on what to buy for loved ones. This is also a time of the year when you will be wondering what to get for your spouse. Today, we will focus on the gift ideas for the men, women and loved ones. There is no such thing as the perfect gift. Every man has his unique tastes and preferences. Your spouse might prefer a new set of spanners and car jerking set, a micro-wave, or oven. A carpenter might prefer a new set of tools, a banker might appreciate a new trendy shirt, trousers and suits, while a fashion conscious fellow might rejoice at an authentic designer’s wear, shoes and bags.  Wallets: Do your best at helping him to get organized! So, get him a trendy wallet, better still a customized wallet.  Bathrobe: Drape him in total luxury. The soft touch bathrobe is a great gift idea for walking round the house and relaxes on Sunday morning in total luxury. This Louis Vuitton’s plush bathrobe offers comfort and adds to any bedroom.  CD: Collections of soul lifting Christian songs for guys who enjoy listening to good values melody from the comfort of their own home or blasting it form their car stereo.  Cologne: A nice fragrance is ideal in any type of relationship and it is always appreciated. The smell of personal fragrance reflects special moments in life. Why not showing him how you feel with a scent that describes him. Palm pilot: Get him/her organized with a palm pilot; this is ideal for the very busy man who misses all his appointments, birthdays, anniversaries and so on.  Concert or movie tickets: Surprise him with tickets to watch his favourite local and foreign team play live or watch movies.  Fashion accessory: Shoes, bags and clothes are essential fashion items.   A box of chocolate: A bottle of fruit wine and a good book-These will help her unwind at the end of a long day.  Stunning piece of jewellery: A simple and elegant jewellery will become the most prized possession in her jewelry case.  Classic sunglasses: Getting him/her a pair of classic designer sunglasses.