Prof Rotimi Williams Olatunji, the Dean School of communication at the lagos state University, Ojo was 60 recently, in this interview with OLAYINKA OYEGBILE, deputy editor, he talks about what it life means, education and other matters. What and how does it feel to be 60? To God be the Glory. Looking back to the past 59 years of my life, I can only but marvel at God’s goodness, blessings and faithfulness. My life remains but a bountiful yet beautiful gift from God all the way. With the benefits of hindsight do you think there are things you’ve left undone before now? The path that I now thread was cut out for me by God. It is in a man to plan his ways, it is for God to direct his paths. Every single moment of my life has been fruitfully invested and divinely blessed. I started my Primary School education at age six, in January 1966, just some few days away to January 15, the first military Coup, and the infamous Nigerian civil war. My transition to the Secondary School took place when Nigeria transited from January to December school calendar year to September to June school year in 1973. I completed my Secondary education in 1978, and was privileged to have been one of the first set of Nigerians that sat for the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB) Examination the same year. When my admission letter did not come early, I sat as a private candidate, for the General School Certificate (Advance Level) in 1979, with passes in Economics and Government. From there, I proceeded to the Oyo State (now Osun) College of Education, Ila Orangun, also as one of the pioneer students. And although I had desired to read Law at the University of Ife, I ended up with a Bachelor’s degree (Archaeology) with a First Class Honours degree. The rest is now history. To the glory of God, I have no regrets at all, for the current Professorial status that God has elevated me. I recall a feature article I wrote on graduation from the Secondary School. I had said, if I had to choose a career, it is either law or journalism. Happily, my career has now peaked with the latter, albeit as a Professor of public relations and advertising. When you look back at your life do you think the youth of nowadays are better placed than during your time? Every generation has to discover its mission, fulfil it or abdicate. Growing up, our own generation clearly identified the need to enthrone democracy and institutionalize a just and humane society through political activism,  provision of trade union education to conscientize the labour movement in Nigeria, hold leadership accountable for their misdeeds through street protests, media campaigns and formation of political discussion groups even during the wasted years of military rule. I was privileged to be an underground radical political activist since 1979, with leaders such as Femi Falana (now a SAN) coming to speak to us on our campuses; Comrade Femi Aborisade Esq who introduced me to the late Comrade Ola Oni and the leftist movement; worked underground when Lanre Arogundade was NANS President, the likes of Segun Sango, Oluminde Fusika (now a SAN), Kehinde Bamigbetan, and the rest of that radical bent. Our movement may not have succeeded in entirely changing the status quo, but we served as a beacon of hope for progressively minded Nigerians. We still remain disciplined, focused and humanistic in our dispositions and aspirations. Many of us in that group are still individuals of high integrity. I am proud of that group of Nigerians. Today’s youths need to discover and fulfil their own mission. The future is here and the youths must take up the challenge of progressively changing the society. Ours remains a generation that seeks the ideals for the society. This is the way to go for today’s youths. Seek the good of the larger number; sacrifice for the good of all. As a moulder of young minds are we preparing them enough for challenges of tomorrow? During our youthful days, we had mentors, the like of Comrade Ola Oni, Professor Claude Ake, Professor Nzimiro, Dr Bala Usman, Prof Fasina, and the rest of that group of intelligential. But we went beyond the lessons we learnt from them. We had political study groups and we were constantly reading and discussing radical cum progressive literature materials, just so we were able to equip ourselves with deep knowledge about politics, the economy, international affairs, philosophy, and the Nigerian society as a whole. How much nearer to these pursuits are today’s youths?  There is need for every generation to equip itself for the challenges of its era. Education, self-education, learning, re-learning and unlearning are all that a generation needs if it must exert any positive impact on the course of history. Empowerment? Yes. But self-empowerment is the most enduring route for any generation, young or old. The National Universities Commission (NUC) recently unbundled Mass Communication education and degree into several disciplines, is this not coming a bit late? The unbundling of the Mass Communication curriculum into seven distinct disciplines has come when the entire stakeholders seem to be ready for it. For us at the Lagos State University (LASU) School of Communication, we started out in July 2000 with seven distinct Communication disciplines. But it appeared then that we were light years ahead of the regulators, who compelled LASU to revert at the time to a Bachelor’s degree in Mass Communication. However, the rejected stone has now become the chief cornerstone. Happily, the industry is ready for this unbundled communication disciplines. Institutions of learning are ready for it; our regulators are equally ready. Therefore, there is no better time to unbundle Mass Communication than now. Are our university degrees targeted at producing job seekers or creators? How do we change the narratives? For us at LASU School of Communication, our philosophy is anchored on turning out graduates who are intellectuals, innovators and entrepreneurs who are contributing to the growth of the society and the economy and in all areas of life through diversified knowledge and skills. Some graduates may end up as employees; others are most prominent in the creative industries. Check us out the media industry is populated with graduates from the LASU School of Communication, just as there are a good number working in organized private sector and in the public sector of the economy. Our graduates are making positive impact in all spheres of our national life, even globally, within two decades of our existence. I am proud to be a part of the process. Global economy requires more and more of knowledge and skills acquisition, most especially media and information literacy. There is a dire need for innovation and entrepreneurship. The unbundled mass Communication curricula address these areas. This is the way to go.  Emphasis should shift to the deployment of media knowledge and skills to develop the society, create new job opportunities, improve societal wellbeing, reduce poverty and truly build a self-reliant people and self-reliant nation. The creative industries and information communication technologies