Yusuf Alli, Managing Editor, Northern Operation  The Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission( EFCC), Mr. Ibrahim Magu has asked Nigerians to take ownership of the fight against corruption. He said although corruption does not grow on our soil, Nigerians owe it a duty to resist the scourge. Magu made the plea at a joint briefing with the Director-General of the National Youth Service Corps(NYSC), Brig. Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim on the Nigerian Youths Walk nationwide on Friday. He said: “Our peculiarities and experience as a nation make every war against corruption to be imperative and all-involving.
“We will continue to draw local and global attention to the fact that corruption is not our culture and does not grow on our soil. “It is an accidental malaise and must not be allowed to remain in our midst; The EFCC will not relent in its works against it and every Nigerian must awake to the need for us to combat the evil together.” Magu said the walk was in line with Section 6(p) of the EFCC Establishment Act on prevention of financial crimes. He added: “The Objectives of the Walk are multifarious. The most significant of them are to sensitise, mobilise youths across the country to reject the evils of corrupt practices; encourage youths to beanti-corruption advocates and ambassadors; enlist youths to partner with the EFCC by providing information and actionable intelligence on fraudsters , organise youths as change agents and pace-setters in integrity and sgalvanise the energy and resourcefulness of youths to prevent corruption in all sectors of our polity. ” The National Youth Service Corps, more than ever before, is ready to develop new modalities of youth engagements in the anti-corruption fight. Corps members in all states of the Federation will come out in large number tomorrow to lead the Walk. ” Other interest groups, like women; civil society organisations, labour unions and others will join in the Walk and we are excited about the prospects of the project. I want to use this forum to appeal to every Nigerian to come out in large number tomorrow and identify with the anti-corruption Walk.”