From Damisi Ojo, Akure  THE Ondo State All Progressives Congress (APC) has said that it will adopt indirect primary to select its chairmanship and councillorship candidates for the local government elections scheduled for April 18 by the state’s Ondo State Independent Electoral Commission (ODIEC). Its Chairman, Ade Adetimehin, said contrary to insinuations in some quarters that there were anointed candidates, the APC would give every aspirant the opportunity to face delegates in the primary election. The party began screening aspirants from the 18 local government areas last week at three different centres in Owo for Ondo North, Akure for Ondo Central and Ore for Ondo South. The APC chairman pointed out that any political appointee who wished to contest the poll must resign as required by the Electoral Act and ODIEC guidelines. He maintained that the APC would provide a level-playing field for aspirants during the primary. Adetimehin said the party would be transparent in picking its aspirants. Besides, he assured the aspirants that the process of selecting candidates would be transparent and credible. Adetimehin said that the election would serve as a litmus test for the party on its ability to handle issues ahead of the next governorship election.  He said: “Ondo APC is not oblivious of the fact that 2020 is a crucial year that the party’s cohesion must not be toyed with. Therefore, we feel it is expedient to be fair and transparent in all we do, to avoid misgivings and ill-feelings among our members. “We will do what is fair, what is just and what will further unite us as a family that believes in the cohesion of the party” The APC chairman also assured that the party would not condone thuggery and violence during the election, expressing confidence that the party will perform well in the election. He said: “The APC-led government has done tremendously well for the people of Ondo State in the last three years to earn their trust and votes. From the industrial revolution, infrastructural development, huge investment in agriculture, health, education and other sectors, it has been a rebirth for Ondo State. “We have no doubt that the party will do well in any election without intimidating or influencing the electorate.” Adetimehin said the party would continue to embark on measures that would further unite the party and eliminate any semblance of wrangling or friction from the fold. He said: “It is not unusual for people to disagree, but resolving issues through effective internal mechanism must be explored at all times.” 