The public hearing sponsored by the Osun State House of Assembly on the State Security Network and Amotekun Corps draft bill was well attended on Monday by traditional rulers, various groups and individuals. Last week, the 26-member Assembly had its first and second readings on the Amotekun bill before the Monday’s maiden public hearing which will be followed by ratification of a special House committee and eventual passage of the bill to be signed into law by the state governor, Mr. Gboyega Oyetola. Among those that presented proposals on the bill include the Aragbiji of Iragbiji, Oba Abdul-Rasheed Olabomi, the Oloba of Oba-Ile, Adekunle Oyeyemi, a retired officer of the Department of the State Sevice, Mr. Akin Adeyi, the Hunters Group of Nigeria, the Osun State chapter of her Police Community Relations Committee, the National Council of Muslim Youth Organisation (NACOMYO) and the African Security Forum. Most of them emphasize the need for synergy between the security outfit and the security agencies, especially the Nigerian Police Force. They also noted that the security outfit must adhere strictly with the extant law of the land and must have local content in its intelligence. For instance, the Aragbiji advised that traditional rulers should be involved in the running of the outfit, saying their involvement will be of immense benefits to the actualisation of the Amotekun. Also, the representative of the National Council of Muslim Youth Organisation (NACOMYO) at the public hearing, Mr. Jamiu Adeyemi, charged state House of Assembly to consider worship centres as places for Amotekun Corps to guide, noting that such places are soft target for criminals. Representing the African Security Forum, Prof. Aliyu Alao, called on the House of Assembly to ensure that people in the diaspora are actively taken care in the bill. Alao, who underscored the importance of ensuring annual report on the Amotekun Corps, noted that this would create room for checks and balances. The Osun state chairman of the PCRC, Comrade Amitolu Shittu, said there should provision for members of PCRC, hunters group and other civilian security organizations on the board of the security outfit. Adeyi advised that effective operation, the security out should be divided into three main inter related departments namely Amotekun Corps Guards, Amotekun Intelligence Unit and Amotekun Marshals. Making a presentation on behalf of the Hunters Group of Nigeria, Chief Hammed Nureni, who is the Osun State chairman of the group, proposed that his members be integrated in the operation of the security outfit saying “we have proven ourselves over the years as men of worthy characters and bravery as well as people that know the local routes and maps of all the forests and bushes in the state in the course of our bush hunting business.” In his speech, the Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Timothy Owoeye, said that Amotekun Corps will assist the police and other security agencies to carry out lawful activities that will maintain law and other in the state. The Speaker stated that when the bill is passed the security outfit will ensure there is safety on the state highways, remote areas and hinterlands among others. Owoeye maintained that recruitment of Amotekun Corps will reduce the rate of unemployment in Osun and the South Western States. He therefore called for support of residents of the state to make Amotekun succeed. According to him, Section 24 of the constitution provides that “it shall be the duty of every citizen to make positive and useful contribution to the advancement, progress and well-being of the community where he resides.” The Osun State governor, Mr, Gboyega Oyetola, who was represented by his deputy, Mr. Gboyega Alabi, noted that peace and security is the principal factor for business and investment to thrive in the state. He said: “If Amotekun works, investment windows will be open. Amotekun will give wings to the Osun Economic and Investment Summit as well as the Osun Investment Promotion Agency which are our windows to economic and industrial transformation. “No state or nation can be stronger than the quality of its laws. Amotekun is as strong as we elect to make it, especially at this public hearing, whose outcomes shall polish and enrich its legal outlook and determine the quality of the peace and prosperity we enjoy.”