  Former Ogun State Governor Olusegun Osoba yesterday disagreed with a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) stalwart, Alhaji Buba Galadima, on President Muhammadu Buhari’s alleged a third term agenda. The accusers have fingered the National Assembly in the alleged plan. Osoba also disagreed with activist-lawyer Mike Ozekhome (SAN) on the notion that the legislature, which has begun a fresh bid to amend the 1999 Constitution, has no role to play in giving Nigerians the type of Constitution they deserve. They spoke in Lagos during the launching of Prof. Ben Nwabueze’s latest books, titled: President Buhari’s Distinctive Legacies to Nigeria and Further Thoughts on the Nigerian Constitution and Polity. Dignitaries at the event included former Chief Judge of the Federal High Court, Justice Roseline Ukaeje; Second Republic lawmaker and one of Nwabueze’s students, Chief George Uwaechue; President-General, Ohaneze, Lagos, Solomon Ogbonna; the Dean, Faculty of Law, University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN), Prof. Joy Ezeilo; Erelu of Lagos, Chief Abiola Dosunmu and Chief Bolaji Ayorinde (SAN). Galadima said President Buhari’s alleged third term agenda was on course. The PDP chieftain said the President had not denied the accusation that he was nursing a third term agenda but had only said the Constitution does not allow such a thing. The implication, he said, is that if the constitution is amended to permit him to run again, he will run. “But they should have asked him: ‘Sir, you say you are not contesting again after your second tenure, but what if the constitution is amended to allow you a third term? what happens?’ After all, the Senate President, who is my brother – a younger brother for that matter – has said he would support anything the President wants. “We are in a one-chance bus. We are on auto-pilot and we don’t know where they are taking us to. But people from my part of the country have already started disembarking.” But Osoba, a chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), told the gathering that no one individual is bigger than the nation. The former governor reminded Galadima that when ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo tried his third term agenda, he (Osoba) and him (Galadima) were among those who stopped the former President.  Ozekhome argued that it is the people that make a constitution and that the National Assembly has no role to play in that regard. The Senior Advocate of Nigeria regretted that the country was going down the drain as one of the most corrupt nations in the world, the third terrorist nation and the 15th failed nation-state, according to Google. Osoba said Nigerians cannot do without the National Assembly. The ex-governor gave the instance that only the National Assembly can convoke a national conference by enacting a law to that effect. He added that the legislature can also amend the constitution to allow a referendum to ratify a new constitution made by the conference. Osoba, who was the chairman of the occasion, said Nigerians should not insist that only the President should be held responsible for the slow pace towards restructuring the country. Former Secretary-General of the Commonwealth Chief Emeka Anyaoku said: “I was privileged to be a member of Nigeria’s permanent representatives at the United Nations (UN). We were proud to identify ourselves as Nigerians because Nigeria was recognised as the undisputed leader and pride of Africa. “That is why I am in the camp of those insisting that we should return to the system that our founding fathers recommended for us… “If the military had not intervened, Nigeria would have been far more advanced today,” he said. All the speakers eulogised Prof. Nwabueze, a constitutional lawyer who has penned many books, for his contribution to democratic advancement. They particularly praised him for his speciality in constitution-making.