Twelve communities under the aegis of Lekki Coastal Area Development Association (LCAA), have cried out to the Lagos State government to save them from invaders on their land given to them in2007 as compensation for surrendering 7,500 hectares of land to government for the Lekki Free Trade Zone (LFTZ), writes PRECIOUS IGBONWELUNDU. When, in 2007, the Lagos State government embarked on the Ibeju-Lekki, the Lekki Free Trade Zone (LFTZ), it had an agreement with the 12 communities that inhabited the area. The communities were to cede their 7,500 hectares of land to the government while the government provides 750 hectares of land for the communities out of which it had provided 375 hectares of land as compensation. The communities constituted an association known as the Lekki Coastal Area Development Association (LCAA). Recently, the association, which represents the interest of the 12 communities, has raised the alarm that some people were try to disrupt the peace of the communities. The Nation reports that on March 27, 2007, a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was entered into between the Lagos State government, Ibeju-Lekki Local Government Council, Lekki Worldwide Investment Limited (LWIL) and ancestral communities of Idasho, Idotun, Ilege, Imobido, Itoke, Okunraiye, Ilekuru, Imagbon-Segun, Olomowewe, Ileko, Alasia and Okesegun whose 7,500 hectares were earmarked as LFTZ. The benefits the communities were to derive include prompt payment of adequate compensation for all economic crops and improvements on the land; provision of resettlement land of 750 hectares to the host communities; 2.5 per cent equity share capital of LWIL holdings; appointment of a representative of the communities to the Board of Directors of LWIL; extension of socio-economic infrastructure and services to the communities; provision of job and livelihood opportunities for members of the communities; economic empowerment to the youth and women as well as installation of beacons to demarcate boundaries of lived villages and communities. Lekki Coastal Chairman of Lekki Coastal, Alhaji Wasiu Ayeola told reporters at the LWIL office in Orofun that criminally minded individuals some of whom were members of families with ancestry claims to parts of the 375 hectares before government’s global acquisition in 1993, illegally sold parcels and were spoiling for war after the LCAA found out and took possession. He said there was need for the state government to urgently intervene in order to prevent a crisis that could scare investors at the LFTZ, a project that would bring enormous development to the state and communities. “There is no crisis as at now. The challenge we have is that some criminally-minded individuals who have perpetrated act of illegalities want to justify what they have done. They are the ones organising press conference and calling Lekki Coastal Area Development Association names. “The 12 communities that make up Lekki Coastal are speaking with one voice. All the Baales, youth and women leaders from the communities are members of LCAA. They believe in what we are doing and know that we are working for the interest of our communities. “No major decision can be taken unless there is wide consultation. Though the MoU recommended that a member of each community should be drafted in, we opened it up and allowed each community to nominate 10 members so that when major decisions are reached, it would represent the people’s position. “Those calling us names are not happy that the leadership took possession of our land. When we came in, we discovered that the land has been encroached upon. The government gave us the land as compensation for our land it acquired. The government acquired the land long before it gave the land to us. We do not have any business with the family claiming ownership of it or accuse us of any wrongdoing. “So, when we discovered that they were selling our land and people have already built on parts of it, we called a meeting of all the representatives in LCAA and brought the matter before them. It was agreed that in the interest of peace, we should allow those who have bought some lands to ratify their documents with us. “Though the decision was not in our favour, we had to take it because we believe in the vision of the state government, which is the development of our area and we do not want to do anything that could cause unrest and, by extension, scare investors. “Some of the buyers came to ratify the ownership of their lands with LCAA but some recalcitrant ones have been going about telling lies about us. That is why we are appealing to the government to join hands with us to fight these perpetrators of illegalities. “We believe that since the government gave us the land as compensation for the economic trees of our people that were destroyed, the government should neither let anyone trespass to it nor allow them cause trouble over our property. “Some of them have been going about claiming that the land was for resettlement and since it is not being used for that purpose, it should be returned to the original owners. What they fail to understand is that the MoU clearly stated that none of the communities would be moved from their present locations except for three- Itoke, Idotun and Okunraiye- that maybe affected in the event of expansion of the seaport. Call Dangote Group to order “If that should happen, the MoU further stated that the government will provide 170 hectares where houses would be constructed close to the sea for their relocation. What we received so far from the government is five per cent not the promised 10 per cent of land. We are still waiting for the remaining five per cent. “We also want government to call Dangote Group to order. The government promised that anything they are going to do in the FTZ Lekki Coastal will be involved but that has not happened. “Our people have not been employed. We wrote a letter to them more than a year ago but there was no reply. Already they are engaging people that are not from our communities who they send abroad for trainings,” Ayeola said. Lawyer to LCAA Dr Felix Morka described allegations by one Dayo Olofinlade that the association fraudulently obtained C of O of the 375 hectares as reckless, wild and mindless. Morka noted that as beneficial owners of the land, LCAA has full liberty to deal, transact or alienate any or all portions of its land on behalf, and for the benefit of its constituent communities as established by the MoU. “Our attention has been drawn to a publication credited to one Mr. Olofinlade, purportedly representing certain customary land owning families who dubiously and recklessly claimed that the Lekki Coastal and its officials had perpetrated acts of impropriety in relation to the grant of the C of O by the Lagos State Government in favour of Lekki Coastal, as well as in relation to a transaction between Lekki Coastal and Dangote Group. “Lekki Coastal entered into a legitimate and valid agreement for the sale of approximately 33 hectares of its land to Dangote Group. The transaction was diligently and validly concluded among the parties.” “Mr. Olofinlade based his wild and mindless allegation on a consent judgment he claims was obtained from a Lagos High Court sitting at Epe dated November 22, 2017 in a matter of Mr. Obisanya Johnson & others Vs Alhaji Toliat Eleto and others. (Suit EPD/091LMW/16). “In the said suit, the first to third defendants (Alhaji Toliat Eleto, Mr. Adedayo Semiu Babatunde and Mr. Teslin Babatunde respectively) are members of the claimants’ Otu descendants’ families of Origanrigan Nla Village in Ibeju-Lekki on whose behalf the claimants brought the action. Lekki Coastal Area Development Association was named fourth defendant while the LWIL was fifth defendant. “When the matter came up for preliminary hearing in line with the Rules of Court, the court referred it for pre-trial conference at the Lagos Multi-Door Court, Igbosere. There, the Mediator determined that the issues in dispute were between the Claimants and the first to third defendants who are members of the same Otu descendants’ families. “Based on that determination, Lekki Coastal and the remaining fifth to seventh defendants were excused from the mediation which continued between the claimants and the first to third defendants’ members of the same family. Ostensibly, the mediation resulted in the adoption of terms of settlement between the parties concerned. “The dispute and consent judgment in question fundamentally involved two major issues: a family dispute between the claimants and the first to third defendants over the sale of land allegedly excised to the family by both parties and the attendant controversy over the sharing of the proceeds of sale; a dispute as to the headship and secretary of the family. “To be clear, beyond the initial appearance before the mediator excused it from further participation, Lekki Coastal was not a party to, and did not participate in any discussions or negotiations or agreements, and certainly never signed any terms of settlement reached between the claimants and the first to third defendants at the Multi-Door Court House. Family feud “The fact of the matter is that the claimants and first to third defendants as member of the same family, were the customary owners of certain portions of land comprised within the 375 hectares that was granted by the Lagos State Government to Lekki Coastal by which all pre-existing rights and interests of the customary owners in the land were extinguished. “The statements by the said Olofinlade were borne out of mischief and obscene desperation. In reality, through his companies ACQVEST HOMES (operator of Pavilion Cleaning Services and Havilah Gold Court Estate) Mr. Olofinlade lays a false claim to ownership of certain parcels of land that he purportedly purchased from the claimant/customary land owning family in his incompetent and negligent failure to conduct due diligence to verify the legal ownership of the land. The elementary rule of ‘Caveat Emptor’ was lost on Mr. Olofinlade during his purported transactions. “Since becoming aware of Lekki Coastal’s valid legal title to the land comprised in the C of O, Mr. Olofinlade has been running aimlessly and unscrupulously in search for a way, however ignoble, to keep “ownership” of a land that is not and was never his own. “In categorical acknowledgement of Lekki Coastal’s valid, superior and overriding title to the said land, Mr. Olofinlade has made applications to the association of the parcels of land that he purportedly purchased from the claimants’ family. The only reason that Mr. Olofinlade’s application for ratification has not been granted by Lekki Coastal is his failure and inability to pay the assessed fees. “Several of the companies listed in paragraph 1(b) of the consent judgment have applied to and had their land interests ratified by Lekki Coastal. These companies have been allocated their respective parcels of land that are entirely outside the boundaries of the land assigned to Dangote Group by Lekki Coastal… “Evidently, Mr. Olofinlade’s statements were in extreme bad faith and desperation arising from his frustration and inability to meet the financial conditions imposed by Lekki Coastal for ratification of the parcel of land he claims to own. Secure ratification “Rather than concentrate his energies on raising the funds required to secure ratification for which he has applied to Lekki Coastal, he has busied himself instigating frivolous cases and shopping for fake and frivolous agitators against Lekki Coastal. “By his statement under reference, Mr. Olofinlade has now resorted to libel and criminal defamation of character in his bid to discredit the lawful and legitimate transactions of Lekki Coastal, and for which he shall soon be brought to justice. “We would like to urge our brethren and neighbours whose lands of the 375 hectares were acquired by the state government in favour of Lekki Coastal’s 7, 500 hectares which was acquired for the purpose of establishing the LFTZ, to not allow themselves be misled by some unscrupulous and self-serving characters. “On our part, there remain very important outstanding obligations that the Lagos State Government has yet to perform in favour of Lekki Coastal. We believe that we can all join hands to resolve any and all outstanding matters arising from the massive industrial complex sites in our homelands as we hope to partake in the economic growth and development it portends for Lagos and the country in general,” he said. Contacted, Olofinlade said he stood by his words that Lekki Coastal obtained the CofO for the land fraudulently; adding that the association’s name was different from the name the land title was issued. He claimed that since the association was not a legal body at the time of the MoU and when the CofO was issued, such agreement was not binding. Olofinlade argued that even if it was so issued by the government, the land was not given the communities for commercial purposes which they have resorted to. He said the land was for resettlement and if not being used in that regard, should be returned to its original owners.