 Liquidation of an insurance company has been described as very difficult and  the regulatory authority, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), has been avoiding it. Despite that there are some ailing companies in the industry, instead of outright liquidation, the Commission rather takes over and set up interim management to manage the companies, with such interventions running endlessly. But in its wisdom, the Commission mandated companies to recapitalise, an exercise it hopes to use to separate the wheat from the chaff. The Commission, it was learnt, expects that the ailing companies would die a natural death when they are not able to recapitalise, come December 31, this year. In a twist, the commission seems to be refraining from enforcing its order in its recapitalisation plan, where it stated that any company that fails to meet up with the deadline would lose its operating licence. Rather, the commission is offering regulatory forbearance which would provide an opportunity for un-recapitalised firms to team up together to enable them remain afloat. Ahead of the ongoing insurance industry recapitalisation, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) made a statement last Wednesday. Speaking at the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria (CIIN) 2020 Business Outlook in Lagos on Recapitalisation & Stability in the Insurance Industry – Role of the Regulator, the Acting Commissioner for Insurance, Sunday Thomas, said the commission do not want any insurance firm to be liquidated after the recapitalisation. He stated that the commission would offer regulatory forbearance to un-recapitalised firms to remain afloat. The NAICOM boss explained further that commission would provide an orderly exit for un-recapitalised companies. He noted that liquidation of firms often turns out to be difficult to handle due to issues around it and that it never favours both the regulator and operators. He also disclosed that the commission will issue guidance note on recapitalisation by the end of first quarter 2020. He maintained that recapitalisation is necessary because when the industry is stabilised, it would help other sectors. On roles of the commission in the ongoing recapitalisation, he said NAICOM as a regulator would ensure transparency and certainty of the process; orderliness of the recapitalisation process; ensure an enabling environment – palliative and level playing field – fair to all. Other roles, according to him, include; ensuring that recapitalised companies are liquid; safety of funds raised – Payment into Escrow Account; orderly exit of un-recapitalised companies and efficient resolution of pre and post-recapitalisation governance/conflicts. Thomas maintained that the commission is committed to sustainable growth in order to enhance the stability of the industry in Nigeria. Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Excel Professional Services Limited, Dr. Oladimeji Alo, who spoke on: The Nigerian economy 2020 Issues, challenges and prospects for the insurance industry, said many of the economic policies and plans for 2020 hold great prospect for growing the economy, promoting job creation and reducing poverty. He said insurance firms that would do well in 2020 are those who had invested in their brand equity; innovation capabilities; talent management capabilities and information technology resources and capabilities. The President and Chairman of Council, CIIN, Mr Eddie Efekoha, said the most important issue in the industry presently is recapitalisation and they hope to continue to get first-hand information on the role they intend to play during the process. He said figures from the Africa Development Bank Group suggest that GDP growth in Nigeria is expected to rise to 2.9 per cent in 2020 from 2.3 per cent in 2019. “However there are negative indicators such as insecurity which could deter foreign investors, shrink the domestic economy, and ultimately dampen prospects for economic growth. Equally, rising public debt and associated funding costs could pose fiscal risks if proposed adjustments are not implemented. Ultimately, Nigeria has many opportunities to transform its economy, particularly in agro processing and local manufacturing in general. There is a need to accelerate structural reforms in order to promote economic diversification and industrialisation to minimise vulnerability to external shocks. “It’s been said that good things come to those who wait, with the current developments in the industry and the country, good things will only come to those who work hard. We are tasked to pull up our sleeves and slave our backs for our industry to grow to the next level. This year will present new opportunities and we must be functioning at peak levels mentally, physically and psychologically to be able to capitalise on these opportunities.  It is our hope that this year 2020 will bring better dividends for us all,” he added.