Okodili Ndidi, Abuja  Cache of Arms including Gun Trucks, Anti Aircraft Tuns, propelled Gun bombs, machine guns and other sophisticated rifles have been recovered from the Boko Haram insurgents during a clearance operation by troops of 156 Battalion deployed at Mainok in Kaga Council Area of Borno State Scores of the terrorists who laid ambush along Jakana – Mainok road were killed, while several others fled with gunshot injuries during the operation. According to the Nigerian Army Operations Media Coordinator, Colonel Aminu Iliyasu, “several Boko Haram insurgents were neutralized while others escaped with gunshot wounds. Two Boko Haram criminals’ Gun Trucks, one Browning Machine Gun, one DSHK Anti – Aircraft Gun, one AK 47 Rifle, one Rocket Propelled Gun bomb, 200 rounds of 12.7mm ammunition (Belted) and a box of 7.62mm Special ammunition were captured”. Also in a related development, troops of the 121 Task Force deployed at Gwoza Council Area of Borno State successfully ambushed Boko Haram fighters at Sabon Garin Kirawa. According to the Army Operations spokesperson, “by late evening on 27 January 2020, troops of 121 Task Force Battalion deployed at Pulka in Gwoza LGA of Borno State successfully sprung an ambush against a group of Boko Haram criminals mounted on motorcycles at Sabon Garin Kirawa in the same LGA. In the encounter which ensued, two of the insurgents were neutralised and one of their motorcycles was destroyed. “Additionally, one motorcycle, one Automatic Grenade Launcher, one Light Machine Gun, one 81mm Mortar tube, one Anti-Aircraft Gun, 5 rounds of 81mm Mortar bombs and 5 rounds of Automatic Grenade Launcher bombs were captured by the gallant troops. “In the same vein, on 28 January 2020, troops of 159 Task Force Battalion deployed at Gubio LGA of Borno State in conjunction with elements of the Civilian Joint Task Force while on a fighting patrol had a meeting engagement with some Boko Haram criminal elements within the general area of Ngomolari Village. “The valiant troops neutralized 2 of the insurgents forcing others to retreat in disarray albeit with gunshot wounds. Notwithstanding, the troops captured one AK 47 Rifle, 4 AK 47 Rifle magazines and 46 rounds of 7.62mm Special ammunition. Regrettably, one soldier and one member of the Civilian Joint Task Force were wounded in action. However, the wounded were immediately moved to a military medical facility and are currently responding positively to treatment”. He further informed that, “in another development, on 28 January 2020, troops of 112 Task Force Battalion deployed at Mafa LGA of Borno State in conjunction with elements of Civilian Joint Task Force conducted a robust clearance operation to Talwari, Damjamari, Kajeri Mai Burem and Gana Villages. Interestingly, shortly after Gana Village, troops made contact with some marauding Boko Haram criminals. After a brief fire fight, 2 Boko Haram insurgents were neutralized. Furthermore, it is heart-warming that troops rescued 2 women and 5 children from the captivity of the criminals. “Relatedly, on 29 January 2020, troops of Sector 2 Operation LAFIYA DOLE in conjunction with elements of Chief of Army Staff Intervention Battalion and Theatre Special Forces conducted a massive clearance operation to Lambawa forest following an earlier encounter with Boko Haram criminals on 26 January 2020 in the general area. Although no contact was made with the criminal insurgents during the clearance operation, nevertheless the troops recovered one Anti-Aircraft Gun and 12.7mm ammunition metal links abandoned by the criminals as they were escaping in utter confusion during previous encounter. “Also, on 30 January 2020, Boko Haram criminals mounted on 11 Gun Trucks met an uncommon resilience and debilitating blow by troops of Sector 3 Operation LAFIYA DOLE deployed at Damasak in Mobbar LGA of Borno State. After 3 unsuccessful waves of attacks on the battle tested troops, the troops unleashed a well-coordinated and overwhelming fire power with the support from Air Task Force Operation LAFIYA DOLE, Artillery and other support weapons to obliterate a large number of the insurgents while others were forced to flee in bewilderment. “Consequently, on 31 January 2020, troops on exploitation along the Boko Haram criminals’ withdrawal route recovered two bodies of the criminal insurgents while traces of blood were also observed. Equally, troops recovered 2 AK 47 Rifles and another burnt AK 47 Rifle, one AK 47 Rifle magazine, 16 rounds of 7.62mm Special ammunition, 2 Rocket Propelled Gun 7 bombs, 3 rounds of 60mm Mortar bombs and 263 rounds of 7.62mm NATO ammunition. “Relatedly, in one of the most devastating defeats of Boko Haram criminals in recent times, on 5 February 2020, elite troops of 707 Special Forces Brigade under Operation SMOKEY THUNDER at blocking position of Boko Haram crossing points east of Gudumbali in Guzamala LGA of Borno State sighted some Boko Haram terrorists mounted on nine Gun Trucks in the vicinity. “Instinctively, the troops initiated a hot pursuit and made contact with the criminals. The resilience of the troopd and their superior fire power overwhelmed the criminals, forcing them to scamper in disarray. At the end of the encounter, five Boko Haram terrorists were neutralized and one of the Boko Haram criminals’ Gun Truck was destroyed. Additionally, one Dushka Anti-Aircraft Gun, one PKM Machine Gun Belt, 5 AK 47 Rifles, one Hand Held Radio, two Android phones and 3 Hand Grenades were captured by the troops. “Regrettably, one gallant officer and one gallant soldier were wounded in action. However, the wounded personnel are currently responding positively to treatment in a military medical facility”.