The death of Housni Mubarak, Egypt’s  president  for 30  years who was overthrown by the Arab Spring Cairo street riots and demonstrations of 2011, provide  ample  opportunity to reflect on the role of the military in politics in Africa nowadays  . Especially   in this era of  Islamic militant terrorism which  ironically  Mubarak  was able to contain to   claim political  stability    and internal   security as the  main    legacies of his    iron     rule   as  Egypt’s  leader   for many  years. Mubarak’s predecessor  as  president of Egypt,  Anwar Sadat  was shot at a military parade  in  1981  by Islamic Brotherhood  militants and Mubarak  himself  was wounded  in that  attack. His  successor after  the Arab Spring, Mohammed  Morsi, Egypt’s first  elected president  in open  democratic   election,   died   unceremoniously  after making a   public speech of defiance in a cage that brought him  to trial,   after  a military  coup that  saw the military  emerge after  the Arab Spring, to seize  power and continue  in the style that Mubarak used  to rule  Egypt  for  three decades. Egypt’s  army or  military played  politics with Mubarak’s  overthrow   and  in  retrospect, and with the power of hindsight,  one can say  it  bowed in the direction  of the violent storm  of  the Arab  Spring  to   survive   and save its boss.  So,  while  true   democratic  leader   President  Mohammed Morsi was allowed to die in a trial  cage,  the  Egyptian  Army   under   President Abdul  Fattah  Sisi  freed  Mubarak and he returned to his house in peace and was given  a military burial fit  for a king  and Commander  in Chief  of the Egyptian  Armed  forces  this week. The  military  in Egypt   has shown  that with its leadership  in politics,  dog  does  not  eat  dog,  and   we  will  today  ask  ,or see why  this is so, and how  that  phenomenon  is working out in some  nations in Africa including Nigeria. Of  course  we know that the era of random coups or military intervention   in Africa is gone for good  and we say good riddance to bad rubbish. We  however  contend  that  in Africa, the role of  the military in government  and politics   has not  diminished. This is because while politicians  in elective  offices  run  governments in Africa’s democracies, most  of the politicians in flowing gowns  are  no more than wolves in sheep’s  clothing.   They  have simply exchanged their  braided caps  and military  fatigues,  for flowing gowns and long caps  as in Nigeria and Sudan.  Of    political  leadership in  these  nations   you  can  safely  say   like  the deceived   Patriarch  Abraham in the bible,  that ‘the hand  may  be that of Esau  but  the voice is that  of  Jacob. The   effect   of this type  of political  leadership  metamorphosis, in the nature  of the  politics and democracy   we   practice   now, as well  as its repercussion for   the security   of African  nations involved    in  this   political   regurgitation,  is the  focus  of our attention today. Today,  Egypt  is under the democratic rule of Mubarak’s former Intelligence Chief President Abdul  Fattah   Sisi,  who won a presidential election after the unfortunate Mohammed Morsi was accused of treason and removed from power. You  can  say  easily  that all is calm and peaceful in Egypt. This  is  because    all  those  young   rioters for democracy  in the  2011  Arab Spring,    encouraged  to  come out  by the Obama Regime in the US and Sarkozy’s  France, have been   abandoned    by the West   and are either jailed or  killed  by the  Egyptian  army  which  played  ball  to avoid Mubarak being   killed  by  the Mobocracy of  the Arab Spring  and get  political  power back  for the military  establishment in Egypt. This trend  of power  regeneration and capture in the chameleonic pursuit of  democracy  is  quite  familiar in many  nations   in  Africa today. We  shall  look at Nigeria  and Sudan   for obvious reasons.  Both  nations  have  been ruled by  leaders  who  were former military  officers before. Nigeria’s  case of military dominance of our  democracy  is  quite  glaring and very  much in plain sight. Former  Generals Olusegun Obasanjo and Muhammadu  Buhari  were military presidents  who  were later elected to two presidential  terms of  office in subsequent   democratic  presidential  elections. In  the  case of President  Buhari  he  lost  elections before being elected in 2015.  And  although  there  are powerful  non military politicians in our democracy like  the Jagaban,  only a fool  will  say  that  the two  former military  presidents  are   not  the dominant factors in our political  system today. Indeed  the senior former  military  president has never  allowed his successors to  run the nation with a free hand since  his two  terms   of   office  expired. In  addition  to this,  Nigeria’s  legislature is filled  with former military  officers of various ranks  who  still see  themselves and their roles as that of an elite military officer cadre, bound together by their ethos of spirit de  corps  that  notes again,  like in Egypt  that  dog  does not eat  dog. Here     is why the issue of  security  comes in with  regard to the Boko  Haram  menace.  This  is because it is my honest  view that  until  Boko  Haram  is destroyed,  the Nigerian military both  past and present, in uniform or out of it, in Aso  Villa  or in the legislature,  cannot  boldly  claim  to  have done its duty of protecting the sovereignty   and  territorial  integrity  of  Nigeria . According  to reports, even  the Nigerian Information Minister  this week  admitted that Boko Haram  is trying to start a  religious war in Nigeria  by killing Christians. This is alarming but not  new, as CAN  has always  made  that tragic allegation. Indeed  some Nigerians who  recently escaped being killed by Boko  Haram have said the terrorists were asking for their names and looking for IDs with Christian  names  as well as being   on the look out for civil  servants who  are believed to be rich   to be kidnapped  for huge ransoms. With  Nigeria’s brand  of democracy  in which politicians have  immense military and security  background as in Egypt, Boko  Haram  should  be history  by  now.  Just    like  the Egyptian Army has  literally  neutralized the Islamic Brotherhood  that  killed Anwar  Sadat  and  which  Mubarak held under  lock and key  as it were,  to make life and property safe in Egypt  until  he was removed in the  Arab Spring streets riots of 2011. Our  leaders  with military  background should  be our  best assets and main deterrence in defeating Boko  Haram. It  should not be otherwise. Surely  a word is enough for  the wise. This is because it is my honest view that until Boko Haram is destroyed, the Nigerian military both past and present, in uniform or out of it, in Aso Villa or in the legislature, cannot boldly claim to have done its duty of protecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Nigeria In     Sudan’s  case the former  military president Omar  Al  Bashir  who ruled for almost the same 30 years like Mubarak  has not  been  so  lucky. The  rioters in Khartoum, Sudan’s  capital,  last  year,  were unyielding in asking that he must go  and eventually  he was brought to trial  again in a cage. His  successors, fellow former military  officers tried to  give him a soft  landing but could not and he is still in jail. Worse  still, the International Criminal Court which  has a warrant on him  for genocide in  Darfur, has  been assured by the new rulers in Sudan  that  he would  be released  to face trial for genocide at the World Court in the Hague. Which  really is a lesson to all world leaders, especially in Africa, that they  hold power in trust to protect the people that elected them. If  the Sudanese former  president eventually faces his nemesis on trial  for genocide, then one  can  very  well   say that  ‘ the mills  of justice may  grind  slowly, but they grind  exceedingly fine.  Once again, long live the federal Republic of Nigeria.    