The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of First Bank Nigeria Plc, Mr Adesola Kazeem Adeduntan, has pledged that the bank will support and partner Osun in Mining in order to create more employment opportunities and to help diversify the economy of the State. Adeduntan made this known at a meeting between the First Bank of Nigeria team and the governor of the State of Osun, Mr Adegboyega Oyetola, at the Governor’s Office in Osogbo on Thursday. He expressed the bank’s gratitude to the the Governor and the state for the conducive business environment the First Bank has enjoyed over the years. The CEO said one of the secrets of the bank’s strength is its policy of not being a financial institution that is just about profitability but one that helps the nation bake a bigger cake. “We have noticed the increased activities of Osun in mining, the awareness created during the Summit the state had last year and we are willing to help the government realize its goals in the sector. We promise to support and partner with Osun in Mining because that is one sector that will help create more employment opportunities and diversify the economy of the State “ Governor Adegboyega Oyetola in his response expressed his appreciation to First Bank for its readiness to partner with the state in Mining. “I truly appreciate the support of First Bank of Nigeria over the years and today’s visit by the Managing Director of this reputable bank. It is also heartwarming that First Bank is ready to support Osun’s mining sector. “I assure you that Osun is ready and determined to explore and move its mining sector from artisanal into the realm of corporate investment. Fortunately, we have received very encouraging response from within and outside Nigeria. The state is blessed with billion-dollar worth of mineral deposits and this administration is working round the clock the convert them into palpable and usable resources to improve both the economy of the State and the standard of living of the citizens. We have all the required documents to excite local international investors and we will work with them to realize our dream of an enviable mining sector in Osun.” Oyetola said.