An Ikeja Special Offences Court Tuesday remanded a pastor and his wife in custody of Nigeria Correctional Services (NCS) facility for allegedly stealing N63.5 million belonging to one late Mrs. Odemuyiwa Janet Adeola. The defendants, the senior pastor of Temple International Church, Lagos, Harry Uyanwanne and wife, Oluwakemi were arraigned alongside their church. They are facing a seven count charge of conspiracy to commit felony, stealing and obtaining money by false pretense contrary to section 278, 278 (1) (b), 285, 285(1) of the criminal law of Lagos state of Nigeria , No 11, 2011 and section 1 (2) and (3) Advance Fee Fraud and other Related Offence Act before Justice Mojisola Dada. Economic Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) prosecutor Mr. S.O Daji, told the court that the couple sold the property of one late Mrs. Odemuyiwa Janet Adeola at plot 32, block 9, Magodo Residential Scheme 1, Ikeja local government to one Mr. Kingsley Atere for N42, 000,000 He further stated that the defendants dishonestly converted the sum of N10 million being proceed of the property of late Mrs. Odemuyiwa Janet Adeola to their own use. According to the charge sheet, “Harry Uyanwanne, Oluwakemi Odemuyiwa (aka Kristein Uyanwanna) and Temple International Church on or about the March 18 2016, converted to your own use the sum of N10, 000,000 property of late Mrs. Odemuyiwa Janet Adeola.” The charge further stated: ,”Harry Uyanwanne and Oluwakemi Odemuyiwa (aka Kristein Uyanwanne) on or about the 14th day of March 2016 in Lagos, by false pretence and with intent to defraud sold the property known as plot 32, Block 9, Magodo Residential Scheme 1, Ikeja local Government to one Mr. Kingsley Atere for the sum of N42million on the false representation that you were authorized to sell the property by the Bonafide owner, late Mrs. Odemuyiwa Janet Adeola which representation you know was false”. The couple pleaded not guilty. The prosecutor, Daji urged the court to remand them in view of the not guilty plea of defendants. He also asked the court for a trial date. Justice Dada remanded the defendants in medium correctional facility. She adjourned the matter until May 5, 6 and 7, 2020.