Operation Amotekun, the nom de guerre of the Western Nigeria Security Network (WNSN), is assailed on all sides in desperate plots to neutralise or weaken it so that it is unable to meaningfully advance the regional plan to secure life and property in the Southwest. The plots may not always be rational, but those who antagonise Amotekun are not discouraged by the inanity of their arguments from attempting to undo the little progress so far made by the security measure’s advocates, particularly governors of the six Southwest states of Ondo, Oyo, Osun, Ogun, Lagos and Ekiti. In order to survive, the security network must now fight on three fronts, to wit, ethnic, religious and legal. It has a herculean fight ahead of it, particularly in the coming months. The option of failure, it has become abundantly clear to every south-westerner, does not exist. Shortly before the commissioning of Amotekun on January 9, 2020, the governors encountered their first opposition when Attorney General Abubakar Malami poured cold water on the security outfit by casting doubt on its legality. Shortly after the commissioning, Mr Malami, who is also the country’s Justice minister, declared Amotekun illegal. That declaration triggered such an uproar that it brought back the dark memories and debilitating politics of the June 12, 1993 annulment. And emboldened by Mr Malami’s opposition to Amotekun, a few key northern leaders, including the supposedly progressive former governor of Kaduna State, Balarabe Musa, began to rail against the security measure, describing it as a primer for secession. How they came to that hysterical conclusion remains baffling. While Mr Malami’s legal arguments against Amotekun were still puzzling observers, the ethnic arguments, which were nothing but a pastiche of guesswork, bore no relation to reality. As Amotekun advocates were trying to grapple with the ethnic and legal booby traps being erected by its opponents, from unlikely quarters came another set of opponents cloaking themselves in religious robes. Early this week, the vice president of the Supreme Council for Sharia in Nigeria, Abdur’rasheed Hadiyatullah, came up with the stupefying argument that since Amotekun, which is the Yoruba word for Leopard, was mentioned in the bible, then it must ipso facto be a Christian ploy to fight Southwest Muslims. Armed with that errant religious argument, he said it would be inadvisable for Muslims to lend support to the security measure, irrespective of its laudability. Said Sheikh Hadiyatullah in Osogbo, Osun State: Amotekun is a subtle method of further Christianization of the Southwest by its promoters in their usual manner of having political and power dominance over the Muslims in the region. It is another elusive way of establishing a ‘Christian-dominated State Police Force whose affairs would be designed and determined from the Church at the expense of the Muslim majority in the region. Amotekun is a coinage from Jeremiah Chapter 5: Verse 6 of the Holy Bible, which reads, ‘Wherefore a lion out of the forest shall slay them, and a wolf of the evenings shall spoil them, a leopard shall watch over their cities: every one that goeth out thence shall be torn in pieces: because their transgressions are many, and their backslidings are increased.’ It was once advertised that any applicant for the purpose of recruitment into the outfit should produce a birth certificate from a church as a precondition for qualification.” Sheikh Hadiyatullah did not indicate how the mere mention of Amotekun should be equated with Christianisation, nor did he seem to appreciate the confusion he obviously created for himself and his audience when he narrowed Operation Amotekun, a Southwest initiative, to Osun State. By referencing the demographics of Osun State, he was unwittingly suggesting that his fear of Amotekun is limited essentially to Osun State and the protection of what he deems to be the Muslim majority of the state. Furthermore, he did not even attempt to substantiate the alleged advertisement for recruitment, which he said churches had put out to the public. Sadly, Sheikh Hadiyatullah seemed unable to understand Operation Amotekun. It is strange how the sheikh appeared inured to the pains ramped up in recent years by the large scale insecurity overwhelming the formerly peaceful Southwest, a large-scale breakdown of law and order which the measure is designed to address. It is even more shocking that given the recent experiences of most Nigerians, in nearly all parts of the country, where banditry and insurgency have shown no religious colouration, anyone, not to say an enlightened cleric, could equate a measure designed to restore safety and security in the Southwest to one religion or the other, especially when such a measure was inspired by politicians and governors, not priests and clerics. Other than Boko Haram, there is no record of abductors differentiating the religion of victims before executing their nefarious deeds. And when herdsmen attack farmlands, there is no record of them finding out the religious beliefs of their victims before ravaging their farms. But the Osun State governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, has given a fitting response to the desperate, concocted and illogical religionisation of Operation Amotekun. Speaking through his spokesman, Ismail Omipidan, and obviously bothered by the fallacies and discord being promoted by Sheikh Hadiyatullah, the governor argued: “If you sit down with those peddling the misinformation on Amotekun, they probably do not understand the basis of the argument they are making. Apart from the social media misinformation about Amotekun being taken from the Bible or whatever, there was no time the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) was part of the meeting when most of these decisions were taken. And if CAN has never been part of the decision, how will you ascribe it to a particular religion? I think it is important to make that clear that there is no recruitment based on church birth certificate…I may not be able to speak for the people generally, but I’m speaking for Osun State because they (Sharia Council) have been addressing the press in the last three weeks from Osun, and I ask, why Osun? Is there any special interest in Osun? I’m not sure Osun is the headquarters of the Supreme Council for the Southwest. I am not sure of it. Why Osun?” Mr Oyetola is not the only governor stepping in for Amotekun. The other five governors, PDP and APC alike, have been vociferous in standing up for the regional security measure. They will of course be mindful of all the arguments of naysayers, but if their statements so far are any guide into their minds, they appear determined to press forward with Operation Amotekun. Governor Rotimi Akeredolu has been unequivocal; Governor Kayode Fayemi has been persistent; Governor Seyi Makinde has been exuberant; Governor Oyetola has been sprightly; and the Ogun and Lagos governors have put their money where their mouths are. More encouragingly, the Southwest itself, Christians and Muslims alike, have been delirious with joy and enthusiastic in their support for the regional security measure. No one knows exactly how Operation Amotekun will eventually look like when it begins operation, both in terms of its composition and its legal framework, whether it will in fact be much fatter than originally conceived or, in view of the strident federal, ethnic, and religious opposition to it, it will be much thinner than required for its survival. But whatever shape it eventually manifests, its advocates hope that Operation Amotekun will do a yeoman’s job in making the Southwest the safest region in the country. Herdsmen and other parochial regionalists fear it, and government officials and their paid agents cast sheep’s eyes at it, but it will survive and hopefully not disappoint the region, regardless of the not-so-clever attempt by the government to subsume it under the police establishment. In fact its survivability seems more assured now than ever, partly and ironically on account of the strident, ethnic and religious opposition to it.