From Damisi Ojo, Akure  A governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ondo State,  Olubukola Adetula, a lawyer has said that he will beat Governor Rotimi Akeredolu at the primary. He said there will be a new lease of life after the governorship election. He predicted that he will win the poll. Adetula, an indigene of Owo where Akeredolu hails, spoke with reporters in Akure, the state capital, on his intention to contest the election. He said: “We have reached out. We have consulted people, leaders, grassroots, women, youths and professionals across the length and breadth of Ondo State and we are convinced that for the sake of the people, for the interest of the good people of Ondo State, we must do what we believe we have to do to help and develop Ondo state. “We have what it takes to bring meaningful changes to the lives of people in the state and that is why we are saying we must seek the nomination form of our party to contest the 2020 Ondo governorship election.” In 2016, contested the governorship election on the same platform, but lost at the primary.  Adetula, who frowned at the way and manner the governor is running the affairs of the state for the past three years, said Akeredolu has offered what he could offer to the citizenry. He however, charged the people  not to lose hope, promising that there would be light at the end of the tunnel. The U.S based legal practitioner said he has the experience, exposure and leadership capability to salvage the state from the doldrums, and position it among the wealthiest in the country. He said he would prioritise skill performance and functionality, knowledge and experience, coupled with strong marketing values to fully utilise both human and natural resources available for the maximum development of the state. Adetula said that with him as the governor, Ondo would become an investment hub with great economic activities, resulting in employment opportunities and increased income accruing from internally generated revenue.