The police in Niger State have arrested 13 suspects for alleged kidnapping, armed robbery and murder in different parts of the state, the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports. Police spokesman DSP Mohammed Abubakar said in a statement on Thursday that the suspects were arrested at Mariga Local Government Area, Suleja, Magama and Paiko and Chanchaga local government areas  of the state. Abubakar said on January 29 a team of police detectives from Kafin-Koro Division raided a kidnappers’ den in Kafin-Koro bushes, arrested one suspected kidnapper, Maune Bello and rescued their victims. He said during police interrogation, the suspect confessed to have conspired with six others, now at large, and kidnapped the victims. The suspect’s role according to the police spokesman, was to guard hostages while in captivity, while other suspects negotiated for the ransom. He said the trailing of the other suspects at large had begun. Abubakar said that on January 18, policemen from Bangi Division arrested one Habila Abel Julius, 25, and Abdullahi Garba, 20,  for supplying drugs to bandits. “The suspects supplied them the drugs but refused to share the information to the police and the bandits collected the supply unchallenged. “Investigation into this case is still ongoing,” he said. He also said that on February 4, policemen and vigilante of Bangi, Mariga Local Government Area mobilised and trailed cattle rustlers who invaded Dankolo village and rustled 13 cattle from the village. “The team engaged the rustlers in fierce gun duel and succeeded in gunning down three  rustlers forcing them to abandon the cattle and fled to the bush. “The rustled cattle were recovered while the corpses of the rustlers were deposited at Bangi General Hospital,” the police public relations officer said. He also said that on February 3 bandits invaded C.G.C Construction Company along Lapai Saminaka Road in Lapai Local Government Area of the State and attempted to kidnap Chinese nationals. Police said the following exhibits were recovered; one cutlass with blood stains, four locally made dane guns, one locally made short pistol, four cutlasses, six knives and some charms,” he said. The command appealed to members of the public to assist the command with information  that could lead to the arrest of criminals in their midst.