Damian Duruiheoma, Owerri Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo State has accused the leadership of the People’s Democratic Party in the state of hiring miscreants from neighbouring states to disturb the existing peace in the state in the name of protest. In a statement issued by his spokesman, Oguwike Nwachuku, Uzodinma directed security agencies to be proactive and stop further actions capable of causing disaffection and breach of the peace. The statement reads: “The attention of the State Government has been drawn to clandestine plans by some disgruntled elements hiding under the canopy of the opposition People’s Democratic Party, (PDP) to disturb the peace of the State through misguided demonstrations. “Imo State Government under the able leadership of His Excellency, Distinguished Senator Hope Uzodimmarecognizes the rights of individuals and groups to protest within the confines of the law. “Unfortunately, security feelers from the camp of the protesters paint a different picture as organizers of the protest have hired people who are not from Imo State to destabilize the peace and cause disaffection”. The statement recalled that Governor Uzodimma had only last week issued a directive prohibiting further demonstrations in the state as such activities portend negative outcomes and that those sponsoring such demonstrations did not mean well for the people as they are only pursuing their selfish interests. Oguwuike said because the primary task of government is to secure the lives and property of her citizens, “Governor Uzodimma will not fold his hands and allow some miscreants masquerading as protesters breach the peace Imo people have witnessed since his coming into office and has therefore directed Security Agencies to rise to the occasion. “More importantly, the Governor has advised parents to guide their wards appropriately so as not to be used as tools in the hands of deceitful politicians”. He advised the general public to go about their lawful business and ignore any call by some elements to be “part of the unproductive exercise”. The statement assured all citizens that his administration is for peace and service, ready to provide equal opportunities for the overall development of the state and her citizens regardless of cadre, status, tribe or religion.