  THE Lagos State Government has launched a newly designed articulated and allied vehicle number plate. It described it as a major breakthrough in the state’s quest to ensure a stable transportation system. Speaking on Thursday at the launch of the scheme at the Adeyemi Bero Auditorium, Alausa, Ikeja, the Commissioner for Transportation, Dr. Fedrick Oladeinde, said that the initiative was part of the reform in the transportation and traffic management sector. Represented by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Transportation, Mr. Oluseyi Whenu, the commissioner said the newly introduced number plate is made up of three standard number plates, which are to be fixed on the cabin head, body and rear of the vehicle. Saying that the regulation to affix three standard number plates on articulated vehicles had been in existence before now, he noted that the newly designed alphanumeric structure of the AVNP had been approved by the Joint Tax Board in conformity with international standard. He said that the launch of the scheme was organised to secure necessary and vital concurrence of stakeholders involved in the vehicle number plate production, issuance and enforcement chain, as well as the end-users, adding that efforts to achieve full compliance would be considered. Explaining to stakeholders the benefits of the initiative, Oladeinde said that creating a robust data base on all articulated and similar vehicles would assist in providing and sharing valuable information with law enforcement agencies, the Nigeria Police and Vehicle Inspection Service (VIS) for safety and security. He said that vehicles coming into Lagos State through its port will henceforth be required to obtain the Temporary Vehicle Tag (TVT), except those who have Dealers Permit, noting that the government has put necessary enforcement machinery in place to ensure compliance. The General Manager, Lagos State Motor Vehicle Administration Agency (MVAA), Mrs. Lanpe Kilanko, said that the introduction of the new plate was a giant step towards advancing the regulation and inspection of vehicle in the state. Speaking about the process of registration, she said that newly procured articulated and allied vehicles would be registered under the new standard, while existing ones would be integrated during their renewal process. Kilanko assured stakeholders that the process of obtaining the new plates would be seamless. She assured them that the agency’s 52 stations across the state had been equipped to begin registration. Speaking about the imperativeness of redesigning the new articulated and allied number plate, the Lagos Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Mr. Hyginus Omeje, said motor vehicle registration with number system has continued to evolve in response to the dynamics of the society, particularly the requirement for better road transport regulation, security and safety. He hailed the government for the initiative, saying that the scheme would enhance national security and create a safe monitoring environment in the country. The unveiling was witnessed by the Special Adviser to the Governor on Transportation, Oluwatoyin Fayinka; the General Manager, Lagos Traffic Radio, Mr. Tayo Akanle; the General Manager, Lagos State Transport Management Agency (LASTMA), Mr. Olajide Oduyoye; the Director/Chief State Vehicle Inspection Service (VIS), Mr. Akin-George Fashola; the General Manager, Lagos State Driving Institute (LASDRI), Mrs. Afusat Tiamiyu and other stakeholders in the transportation industry.    