The Ekiti Council of Elders has warned the six southwestern governors against politicising the recruitment of personnel for the operation Amotekun in the region, saying it could undermine the essence of the security network. The Council noted that the personnel for the security network would be critical to ending the rising wave of kidnapping, banditry and all other forms of brigandage and criminalities. Addressing journalists in Ado-Ekiti at the weekend, the Council’s President, Prof. Joseph Oluwasanmi  and the General secretary, Mr Niyi Ajibulu, the council said the recruitment of personnel should not be predicated on party politics, saying what the outfit need is people of impeccable character and dignity. Oluwasanmi who applauded the Ekitu State House of Assembly for the accelerated passage of the bill, stressed the need people of the region to unite for the development of the zone like they did with the creation of Amotekun. He added that the personnel for the security network would be critical to ending the spate of kidnapping, banditry and other crimes in the area, saying, ” we must not allow bad eggs and politics to tarnish this great Initiative.” According to him,”  The Council enjoins Ekiti Government and Others to ensure that only people of impeccable characters and unquestionable past are appointed in the Board of the security outfit. Equally, the Amotekun personnel are to be carefully screened so as not to bring in persons or people that would eventually become impediment to the good intention of the whole idea. “The Council is happy that for once, the Yoruba leaders and opinion moulders are on the same page on an issue of interest to the Yoruba Nation. Consequently, the Council believes that gradually, the Yoruba nation would be speaking with one voice in other matters that would promote the Yoruba nation. “The Council dispels the fear in some quarters at the non-Yorubas in the Southwest are the target of the formation. Rather, the security outfit will enable the Yoruba to continue to be good and accommodating hosts they have been renowned for”, he said.