Moses Emorinken, Abuja The Joint Health Sector Unions (JOHESU) has stated unequivocally that it will continue to resist and kick against ploys aimed at privatizing, commecializing and concessioning of public health institutions in the country. Privatization will further make it nearly impossible for the common man to assess qualitative healthcare services without diving deep into poverty. The President of JOHESU, Comrade Biobelemoye Josiah, made this known while speaking during the Night of Honour and Award, themed: the National leadership of JOHESU and Association of Healthcare Professional Associations (AHPA) organised by the Unions, Thursday in Abuja. “According to directors of health institutions in Nigeria, less than a quarter of public health institutions are in the hands of government with the rest owned and managed by private hands. Yet this has not changed the indices that began to nosedive 35 years ago in Nigeria. “Yet they want us to believe that it is only through privatization, concessioning and when all the public health institutions are taken, that health can be affordable to every Nigerian. JOHESU stands strongly against this,” he said. During the last Executive Council meeting of the Nigeria Medical Association (NMA) in Kano, it said Public Private Partnership should form a core option in healthcare financing as it had the potential to revamp the nation’s healthcare infrastructures. “Commercialisation, privatisation and Public Private Partnership are policies that have failed and which Europe is rejecting today. The developed world is rejecting them but some people are planning to institute it in Nigeria. “They want us to believe that only when all public health institutions are taken out that health can be affordable to Nigerians. We stand against this and want the Ministry of Health to reason along with us. We are agitators of patriotic call of health for all Nigerians,” he added. The JOHESU boss made reference to the proposal to privatize the trauma centre at Gwagwalada Teaching Hospital in Abuja, saying that the union stood against it and secured the support of lawmakers to stop the proposal. “When the centre was put up for sale, we brought it out to the public. It was to be sold to someone who had less than £15,000 in his account despite the fact that the centre was built at the cost of over N800m. “We knew that once that was done, it would be out of the reach of the poor. We resisted the idea with the aid of the House of Representatives member. “Our members in the National Assembly have helped us to achieve a lot as a health union because they understand that our members stand for making health available to the people”. He therefore called on all relevant stakeholders, including the Federal Ministry of Health to take seriously the unions agitations, adding that the unions were not noise makers but agitators for facts, patriotism, and have sincere concern for the health and wellness of all Nigerians. Soliciting the support of legislators in their quest for quality and affordable healthcare for all Nigerians, Josiah said, “Today’s gathering is informed by the fact that JOHESU has been making some efforts to tell Nigerians that we care about the health of Nigerians but we need the support of the National Assembly to make our voice loud”. The event was also aimed at creating a congenial atmosphere for familiarization between legislators from the JOHESU extraction and other members of the union. In his remarks, the president of the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Ayuba Wabba, said JOHESU has contributed a lot towards providing quality health services to Nigerians. He therefore expressed optimism that working with the unions will help change the narrative and change the country’s present poor health indices. The minister of state for health, Dr. Adeleke Momora, expressed the ministry’s commitment to working with the unions, as he describes them as “partners in progress”. A total of 45 distinguished Senators and House of Representative members were honoured and awarded for their contributions towards achieving qualitative healthcare services in the country.