 1. Dark Chocolate
Dark chocolate features flavanols which can protect your skin from the sun and provide a whole host of skin benefits! 2. Green Tea
Collagen is the leading player in how youthful or old your skin looks. As a result, it makes perfect sense why green tea appears as one of the many foods that can make you look younger! Green tea is antioxidant-rich but features more polyphenols than anything else. These polyphenols can protect your collagen while helping to reverse or stop the signs of aging. 3. Coffee
According to some of the latest National Cancer Institute research, the bioactive compounds in coffee can help to protect your skin from melanoma.
Filtered coffee can reduce malignant melanoma, but there is no associated link between boiled, instant, or other coffee types. Get ready for smoother looking skin thanks to your favorite morning beverage! 4. Avocados
Avocado is beneficial for its high vitamin content, fiber, potassium, and fatty acids, it’s also working wonders for the health of your skin. Avocados feature polyhydroxylated fatty alcohols which not only repair damaged skin but protect your healthy skin from the sun and other damaging environments. 5. Tomatoes
Tomatoes feature a lot of lycopene which scientists recognize as being beneficial for prostate cancer, heart disease, and even your risk of a stroke.  6. Vegetables
As most people know, vegetables offer a range of nutrients. They even have cancer-fighting properties and can protect against heart disease. However, they also help you fight the battle against wrinkles. As they are high in Beta Carotene, they can stop free radicals and sun radiation damage, equating to healthier and more youthful skin. 7. Virgin Olive Oil
If you are going to include any fat or oil in your diet, let it be extra-virgin olive oil. Not only can it help to prevent common diseases and reduce the risk of cancer and heart disease, but it can also help you to look far younger than you are.This is all thanks to its anti-inflammatory effects. If you find yourself sunbathing a little too much, extra virgin olive oil works to offer a layer of protection, meaning you are less likely to have sun-related skin damage. 8. Blueberries
Blueberries are a delicious and sweet treat that’s bursting with flavor (and nutrients!) They work well in smoothies and breakfast cereal, while also being packed full of healthy vitamins that work wonders for your skin. If you are looking to even out your skin tone, brighten it, and even help it to look smoother, then reach for a handful of blueberries. They feature many antioxidants that fight free radical damage, while also lightening and evening out your skin at the same time. 9. Fish
Salmon and other fish that are rich in omega-3 can be your saving grace. Include enough fish in your diet, and you will be able to moisturize your skin enough for that youthful glow. The best part is, this anti-aging food type is delicious and nutritious! 10. Watermelon
Watermelon features an antioxidant known as lycopene. Lycopene enables you to hang out in the sunshine for longer before your skin starts to suffer from UV ray damage. While it’s no substitute for sunscreen, it’s nice to know it’s fighting to keep your skin looking younger and healthier for longer.