The Executive Director, Abuja Trade Centre (ATC), Mr. Jude Chime, has urged the Federal Government to promote Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) particularly those in the manufacturing and export sectors to take advantage of the huge opportunities in Nigeria’s faith-based products market. He said without adequate support to boost the export capacity of SMEs in faith-based products market, Nigeria will not tap into the market’s potential valued at over $2.7 trillion. Speaking in an interview in Lagos, Chime said government needed to scale up efforts at promoting SMEs to play in the huge market, sometimes referred to as halal economy, which, according to him, grew from $2.2 trillion in 2017 to over $ 2.7 trillion in 2020. Describing the products market as a huge and largely untapped, Chime said the Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry was partnering the ATC to host a conference and exhibition in Abuja. He said the Halal Conference and exhibition will host 30 countries, over 200 exhibitors and 50, 000 visitors. Chime listed countries to participate in the conference  to include Indonesia, Malaysia, United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Korea, Thailand, Bangladesh, Morocco, Algeria, among others. The Abuja Halal Exhibition, which will cover over 30 sectors, Chime said, would provide dedicated business-to-business window for licensing, branding and franchising, as well as create potential for joint venture opportunities in the faith-based products market. He said: “When you talk about Halal, it is not just about the food and beverage, it is about lifestyle, it is about your way of living. It is about what is permissible for consumption; it is the way of life that is permissible. “Nigeria has huge Muslim population estimated at about 100 million and we are yet to even start tapping into the halal economy. “We need to promote our SMEs too; we have to further encourage them to go into exportation, to go into manufacturing halal food, to export to the other parts of the world. “The halal industry/economy as at 2017 was worth over $2.2trillion, but now it is about $2.7 trillion. So it is a very huge economy,” Chime said. According to him, these are opportunities that the chamber is trying to position the various stakeholders to look at. “It is one of the essences of having the exhibition,” the ATC executive director added.