The Chinese Government has shared treatment guide of the deadly Corona virus with Nigeria. According to Chinese daily newsletter, the document on how to prevent and control the virus has been provided to Nigeria. The newsletter, which provided update on the outbreak, also revealed a six day consecutive decline of new cases. The newsletter stated: “Official Guide Documents on preventing and controlling the novel coronavirus pneumonia, has been provided by China National Health Commission to its counterpart in Nigeria and other countries, through official channel; Documents including Lab Test Procedure,Epidemic Update & Risk Assessment, Diagnosis and treatment protocol, Management of close contacts, Surveillance, Epidemiological Investigation.” The newsletter also revealed a notable increase in cure rates across China, epic centre of the outbreak. “Statistics today suggest a notable increase in cure rates in Wuhan, Hubei and across China, which rose to 6.2%, 6.1% and 8.2% respectively as compared to 2.6%, 1.7% and 1.3% on 27 January. The figures show that treatment measures are achieving preliminary results across the country,” it stated. On new confirmed cases outside the epic centre of the outbreak, the newsletter stated: “As of 24:00 on Feb 9, the National Health Commission had received 40,171 reports of confirmed cases and 908 deaths on the Chinese mainland, and in all 3,281 patients had been cured and discharged from hospital. There still remained 23,589 suspected cases. “So far, 187,518 are now under medical observation, who have been identified as having had close contact with infected patients. “The number of confirmed infections in the China’s Hong Kong (36, incl. 1 death) and Macao (10, incl. 1 cured) special administrative regions and Taiwan province (18 incl. 1 cured) had risen to 64 in total, according to the commission.” The Chinese Government also stated that efforts are on to mitigate the impact of the virus on the economy. “Chinese authorities are carefully balancing efforts to control the novel coronavirus epidemic and minimize its impact on the economy as millions of people head back to work Monday after an extended holiday,” it stated.