 Wife of a Kaduna-based medical doctor who was kidnapped with her two children on Saturday last week has been killed. The Nation gathered that the kidnappers after killing Mrs. Ataga and dumping her body at a location have asked her husband for N20 ransom to free his two children still with them. Kaduna State Police Command confirmed the killing of Mrs. Ataga, describing the development as unfortunate. Dr. Ataga’s family members were abducted in the early hours of Saturday 25th January during the invasion by the kidnappers of Juji community in Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State. The kidnappers, who were said to have engaged security operatives in a serious gun battle, killed a member of the community’s vigilante group and later broke into the Atagas’ home and whisked away Mrs. Ataga and two children. The Nation gathered that the abductors had demanded N150 million ransom for the release of Mrs. Ataga and the children and negotiation was still on before they killed her. A source from Juji community told our correspondent yesterday evening that the kidnappers killed Mrs. Ataga and called her husband to pick her corpse from where they dumped her. According to the source, “the kidnappers have killed Mrs. Ataga. They dumped her corpse and called her husband and directed him to pick the corpse at a particular location. “Right now, the corpse has been picked and deposited at the mortuary in a state hospital here in Kaduna. “After killing her and dumping her corpse, the kidnappers are now asking for N20 million ransom for the release of the two children.” Meanwhile, Kaduna State Police Command Public Relations Officer, DSP Yakubu Sabo, who confirmed the killing of Mrs. Ataga to The Nation, described the development as unfortunate. He, however, assured that efforts were on top gear to secure safe release of his children who are still with the kidnappers. According to DSP Sabo, “yes, it is unfortunate, the woman has been killed. We got report that her body was dumped somewhere and our men went in to recover the corpse and it has been deposited at Gwana Awan Hospital. “As for the children, I can confirm to you that the children have not been released. Ransom is being demanded, but I cannot tell the amount. But, we are doing our best to secure release of the children,” the PPRO said.