24 year-old Fejiro Hanu Aigbodje sits atop a business empire, Patricia Technologies Limited, said to worth billions in naira. In 2019 alone, the E-commerce company processed over N10 billion in transaction volume. Agbodje, who describes himself as a goal-getter, a big dreamer and a hard-worker who wouldn’t allow any opportunity goes by had little help in shaping his destiny. No family wealth, no huge sum of money from anyone but pure vision and drive. “ I have been an entrepreneur since I was 8, it came naturally to me. I am probably one of the most optimistic people you’ll ever meet. I am a graduate of the University of Port Harcourt, where I studied Mathematics and Statistics, it was quite interesting because I never really wanted to study mathematics. But looking back, knowing what I know now, I am grateful I did and proud of myself that I didn’t flunk it. Somewhere, I always knew that the dot would connect,” he revealed in a recent interview. “I have started a lot of other businesses before Patricia. I once had a mini restaurant when I was in the university. I sold airtime, I sold popcorn and I got admission through a program called BASIC, kind of like A-Levels today, then I used my house rent to buy a bike and gave it to an indigene who ran away with it. I have done a lot of things to be honest,” he added. According to him, his big break came through his uncle who used to give him iTunes gift cards whenever he visited Nigeria. “I didn’t own an iPhone, so I laterally had no use for it, so I tried to find where I could exchange this for real money. I couldn’t find any local company doing that and I ended up getting scammed of the card. At that point, I realized I had stumbled on something. I figured if I had this problem, a fleet of other persons would most likely have the same problem and that was the birthplace for Patricia,” he recalled in an interview. Hanu Aigbodje was born in Warri, Delta State on November 16, 1995. He was raised in three different cities of Nigeria, namely; Warri, Lagos and Portharcourt. He attended Prime International School for his nursery education between 1997 and 1999 before enrolling in Royal Heritage for his primary education between 1999 and 2005. Both schools are in Warri Delta State. Later on, he moved to Prime International School, also in Warri but was only able to do his Junior Secondary School education between 2005 and 2008 before proceeding to Immanuel International School, Portharcourt, Rivers State, to complete his secondary education (2008-2011). He did his basic studies between 2011 and 2012 at the University of Portharcourt and studied mathematics and statistics at the same university (2013-2018). He is an Urhobo man from Udu local government area of Delta State. While he was having his tertiary education Aigbodje had his eyes set on owning his own business. Even before his graduation, he had set up his company, Patricia which has become a big player in its sector.