The world over, there is strong advocacy to end female genital mutilation, writes CHINAKA OKORO.  There was a great wailing by Mmirimma’s (pseudonym) relatives the night she died. They didn’t cry because Mmirimma died at a time she was ripe to be useful to her family and society, but because she was a victim of harmful traditional practice that involves the cutting or removing of her external genitals. In the early morning of that callous day, some  old  women in her clan called her out from her mother’s hut. She looked at  her mother, Omasiridiya, who looked the other way. The old women took Mmirimma to the back of the hut where they laid her on a mat already spread on the ground. They ordered her to spread her legs for the circumcision because she was of age. One of the women brought out a rusty razor blade the sight of which petrified her. She cried uncontrollably as the “grubby operation” was carried out on her. That morning, she underwent female genital mutilation (FGM), a kind of operation on the private parts of women and young girls that involves partial or total removal of the external genitalia. From that morning, she had unbridled bleeding until she died in the night. It was not only Mmirimma that died as a result of this practice. In several other communities, especially at the grassroots, many young girls and women had died because a loathsome cultural practice was forced on them. An ugly incident allegedly played out in a remote village in one of the Southeast states where a promising young lady was forced to undergo female genital mutilation because it was part of the mores of the land. After the unwholesome operation on her private part, she bled to death. The youths in the area were said to have embarked on demonstration to condemn the act.  Global efforts against FGM Informed by some health hazards associated with it, the United Nations (UN), in 2012  adopted February 6 every year as International Day of Zero-Tolerance for female genital mutilation, with the aim to amplify and direct efforts on the elimination of the practice. With this year’s theme as “Unleashing Youth Power”, the UN is of the view that “ending female genital mutilation in one decade will require support from every quarter”. With significant population growth, especially among the youth, investing in young people becomes indispensable. That is why this International Day will focus on mobilising youths around the world for the  elimination of harmful practices, including female genital mutilation.  Driving forces of the practice Investigations revealed that religion, tradition and custom are the driving forces for the practice of FGM, which subjects women to dehumanising agony. This belief system is said to have justified the continuous survival of FGM because of the opinion adherents of this obnoxious societal norm hold to the effect that the practice was handed down to community members by their forebears and fulfills some “irrelevant” religious obligations. Surprisingly, tradition and religion, which are impetuous to the practice, are not static but dynamic and subject to modification. That FGM is still accorded relevance on account of the clitoris being believed to induce sexual activeness in women and encourage promiscuous behaviour,  is one of the warped notions bandied by its admirers. It is also an erroneous belief that FGM ensures and preserves girls’ or women’s virginity. With the current waning of societal values, this notion  seriously invalidates this perception. According to Mrs. Lilian Chinyem Ndobu, FGM is associated with cultural ideals of femininity and modesty, adding that the practice is mandatory in her Delta State community. Reasons for sustained FGM practice Several reasons have been advanced by adherents of the practice on why it should be sustained. Dr. Chinedu Ifechigha, former Senior Lecturer in the Department of Curriculum Theory, Faculty of Education, University of Lagos (UNILAG), Akoka, said cultural, religious and/or social reasons sustain the practice of FGM, which is carried out on young girls between infancy and the age of 15, even as he maintained that the practice is  a  form of child abuse  and violence against women and  girls, and has severe short and long-term physical and psychological consequences. He said: “Female genital mutilation comprises all processes that involve partial or total removal of the female external genitalia or other injury to the female genital organs for non-medical reasons. “Until family and societal values are restored as part of our ways of life, our young girls and women will continue to wallow in the wilderness of putrefaction. Female genital mutilation cannot provide any solution as we are all witnesses of moral debasement among our young girls, who underwent the so-called removal of the clitoris, which enhances sexual enjoyment during intercourse. The primitively harmful practice should be done away with, if need be through legislation.” For Mrs. Lilian Chinyem Ndobu, FGM as a practice is rooted in tradition and religion, and it’s being carried out in most communities, especially in the rural areas. She held the view that if it helps in reducing sexual promiscuity in women, then the society will be the sure beneficiary. But she could not provide any answer to the question whether the practice has enhanced moral standard in terms of fornication and  adultery as ears are inundated with news of many marriages being broken as a result of extra-marital affairs on the part of women. “It is believed to check promiscuity in young girls and women since the part of the female private part that induces sexual pleasure is cut out. It aims at ensuring premarital virginity and marital fidelity,” she said. Eze Ndigbo of Lagos State and Chairman Council of Eze Ndigbo in Lagos State Christian Uchechukwu Nwachukwu (JP) told The Nation that “though female circumcision is a cultural and traditional phenomenon handed over to the present generation by our forebears, its continued rehearsal in the 21st Century signifies societal retrogression since many harmful and irrelevant cultural norms that are inimical to welfare of humankind have been eradicated.  “Female genital mutilation, though still practised in some communities in Nigeria should be eliminated because of its health hazards.” “Tradition, ethnicity and religious beliefs have contributed to the persistence of the practice in some communities. Older women and men have also contributed greatly to the perpetuation of the practice over the years. This is so because they would not want the mores of the land to become extinct,” he said.  No health benefits, only harm As harmful as FGM is said to be, experts in reproductive health maintain that it has no health benefits, adding that it harms girls and women in countless ways. It involves removal and damaging healthy and normal female genital tissue, and interferes with the natural functions of girls’ and women’s bodies.  Health complications  associated with FGM According to WHO, immediate complications can include severe pain; excessive bleeding (haemorrhage); genital tissue swelling; fever; infections such as tetanus; urinary problems; wound healing problems; injury to surrounding genital tissue and shock death while the long-term consequences can include urinary problems (painful urination); urinary tract infections); vaginal problems (discharge, itching, and other infections); menstrual problems (painful menstruations, difficulty in passing menstrual blood, etc.); scar tissue and keloid; sexual problems (pain during intercourse and decreased satisfaction, among others); increased risk of childbirth complications (difficult delivery, excessive bleeding); caesarean section and need to resuscitate the baby, and others). Sometimes genital tissue is stitched again several times, including after childbirth, hence the woman goes through repeated opening and closing procedures. It can increase both immediate and long-term risks; psychological problems like depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder and low self-esteem, among others. In its 1997 report on “Women and Sex”, Amnesty International revealed that “female genital mutilation causes torture for most mutilated women. Sex can be excessively painful and even put the women’s life at risk. Women whose genitals have been mutilated may experience painful intercourse throughout their lives if they do not seek medical advice. In cases where there is no pain then there is no sexual fulfilment. “The clitoris is an important organ in experiencing sexual pleasure and orgasm among women. Mutilation of the clitoris would negatively influence sexual achievement and fulfilment among many women, who have undergone the procedure of FGM.” Findings indicate that “non-mutilated women are more sexually active than men are. Therefore, by mutilating them, their sexual desire is under control. Women and girls are affected socially, psychologically and psycho-sexually in their lives if they were mutilated.”  Rights violation and social injustice Female genital mutilation, according to rights advocates, is severe violation of human rights and of women’s physical integrity and a form of social injustice which women suffer.  Ending the practice Ending female genital mutilation requires a deep and long-term commitment. Knowing its consequences and effects on individual, families, health system and the community will help supporters to continue fighting this practice. Any money spent on eliminating this harmful practice, compared with the costs of complications, would not be wasteful. Further studies and research work on how to end this inhuman practice are needed to assess its socio-economic effects and the relationship between FGM and induced complications. Such studies will help policymakers to fight this practice head-on. Again, there should be a legislation to forbid the practice.