 It was thanksgiving and merrymaking for the 70-74 set of the Methodist Boys High School (MBHS), Lagos as they celebrated the 50th anniversary of admission into the school. The anniversary featured a thanksgiving service and reception/awards on the school’s premises on Sinari Daranjo Street, Victoria Island. Beyond the variety of food and drinks and music dished out by the Police Band, for the 70-74 set it was an opportunity to give back to teachers and pupils of the school. Old boy and former principal of the school, Sir Oluwarani Olusoga Soewu, was one of six teachers honoured at the event. His old age and being wheel-chair bound did not deter him from attending the event.  The 81-year-old was praised for his contribution to the school’s growth between 1965 and 1980 he served in the school – first as a Physics teacher (1965-1979) and then as a principal. Other teachers honoured were Technical Drawing teacher, Mr. Onabowale Adewale; Chemistry teacher, Mrs. Tinuade Gbadamosi; Mathematics teacher, Oriola Olanrewaju; Late Mrs Omolabake Latunde-Dada; and the late wife of Chairman, Elizade Nigeria, Mrs. Elizabeth Wuraola Ojo. Five indigent pupils were also presented with educational support grants of N100,000 at the event.  Olawale Odunfa, Adeyemi Joshua, and Joseph Iwara were among the five. For the celebrators, the day was perfect, the disappointing performance of the generator serving the hall regardless. Back in their school days, MBHS was located on a cramped piece of land on Broad Street, Lagos Island.  Nonetheless, it held fond memories for them as young boys.  Now mostly retirees, many said they still lived by the school’s motto, Non Sibi Sed Allis, which means “Not for himself but for others”. Chairman, organising committee for the anniversary, Squadron Leader Abiodun Martins (retd), said it was nostalgic seeing many of his mates he had not seen in over 40 years. He said the old boys were also happy at the state of their school, something alumni of many schools cannot boast of. “It is a lot better than when we were in school.We just had a  tiny piece of land. But now they have many facilities. We used this occasion to give back to the school.  This time, we are focusing on indigent students,” he said. Another old boy, Mr. Lanre Uthman, said the old boys had invested a lot to make the school what it is today. “What the old boys are doing for the school is more than what the church is doing. All the old boys, both locally and in the Diaspora, are giving back to the school a lot,” he said. On his part, Secretary of the Organising Committee, Mr Babatunde Adetula, said they were grateful that many in the set became successful. “All of us now are something in the world. We are celebrating the fact that God gave us diversity. For this celebration, we had 24 people come from the U.S., UK, Kaduna, Abuja, Abeokuta, Ibadan, Osogbo to show you how diversely God distributed us. And each and everone of us we all served in various capacities living according to our motto,” said Adetula, who retired as a Director from the Nigerian Copyrights Commission. 