 The first case of coronavirus in Nigeria was detected in Lagos state on Thursday. Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, revealed that the patient had no serious symptoms and is being managed at the Infectious Disease Hospital, Yaba, Lagos.
To stay safe, here are the basic things you need to do: 1. Wash your hands frequently The ministry of health has called on all Nigerians to thoroughly and regularly wash their hands with soap and water. Also, you can use alcohol-based hand sanitizer. Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces using a regular household cleaning spray or wipe. This must become a purposive and conscious routine. 2. Self-precaution Avoiding crowded environment will help contain the spread of the virus and help keep the nation safe. Persons with persistent cough or sneeze should stay at home or keep a social distance and should not mix with the crowd and ensure you get medical help immediately if you have persistent cough or sneeze. 3. Avoid touching your face, eyes, nose, or mouth when your hands are dirty. Once contaminated, hands can transfer the virus easily to your eyes, nose or mouth. From there, the virus can enter the body and can make you sick. 4. Healthy distance Try to maintain at least 1.5 metres (5 feet) distance between yourself and anyone who is coughing or sneezing. This is to help avoid the transfer of the virus easily to you. WHO warned that coughs or sneezes from an infected person easily spray liquid droplets capable of transmitting the virus. 5. Respiratory hygiene The need to maintain consistent respiratory hygiene cannot be overemphasized. Make sure you and people around you follow good respiratory hygiene, Cover your mouth with the inside of your elbow whenever you sneeze or cough. Dispose of any tissue you use to blow your nose or sneeze right away. 6. Protective measures for affected persons If you recently visited or live in the areas where corona-virus is spreading, follow the guidelines outlined below Stay at home if you begin to feel unwell, even with mild symptoms such as headache and slight runny nose, until you recover. If you develop a fever, cough and have difficulty breathing, seek medical advice immediately as this may be due to a respiratory infection or other serious conditions. This will also help to prevent possible spread of coronavirus and other viruses. 7. Stay informed Stay informed on the latest developments about Corona-virus through official channels on TV and Radio, including the NCDC, Federal Ministry of Health and Lagos State Ministry of Health.