The leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) on Saturday called on the three tiers of government to rise up to the challenge of the Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) after the country recorded its first case. The index case, which was confirmed on the 27th February 2020 by the Federal Government and the Lagos State government, is the second in Africa since its outbreak in China in January 2020. CAN called on the Federal and the other tiers government to be pro-active in order to contain it and prevent its spread. A statement in Abuja by CAN General Secretary, Joseph Daramola, said: “On our part, we will not cease praying until the disease is chased out of our shores. “According to Deuteronomy 28:61, is a curse of the Law but according to Galatians 3:13-14, Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the Law. Therefore, we have been redeemed from the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) and every other terminal diseases in Jesus Name. “The God who answered our prayers when the Ebola Virus Disease (EVD), which is deadlier, came calling is still on the throne and that same God will also grant us victory over the COVID-19 in Jesus Name”. CAN advised politicians not to politicise it but join hands together to ensure the disease does not spread: “as we also advocate cooperation and understanding between every state and the Federal Government”. The religious body also urged every church to make water, soap and sanitizers available for worshipers before and after service, beginning from tomorrow, (Sunday). It appealed to all Nigerians, irrespective of their religious and political persuasions, to embrace simple rules of hygiene regularly for safety reasons. Daramola said: “They should also follow these professional counsel: Avoid panicking. Regular washing of hands with water, soap and sanitizers (where available). “Avoid crowded places and people who are coughing or sneezing. Covering of mouths and noses with a handkerchief or tissue while sneezing or coughing and Avoid self-medication”. CAN said all hands must be on deck with brilliant scientists, Micro-Biologists, Virologists and all relevant professionals alive to their callings to put their academic prowess into action and help. “Noise should be made over this to create awareness. Call the emergency lines. Lagos State Emergency hotlines 08023169485 or 08033565529 or 08052817243 which are available 24-7. NCDC toll free -0800-970000-10”.