Damisi Ojo, Akure  A governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ondo state, Olubukola Adetula, a lawyer has assured the people of the state that the alleged pains they are going through under the incumbent Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu- led administration would soon become a thing of the past when he takes over from him. Adetula, an indigene of Owo where Akeredolu hails from, spoke with reporters on Friday in Akure, the state capital on his intention to contest the forthcoming governorship election in the state. He said: “We have reached out, we have consulted people, leaders, grassroots, women, youths and professionals across the length and breathe of Ondo state and we are convinced that for the sake of the people, for the interest of the good people of Ondo state we must do what we believe we have to do to help and develop Ondo state. “We have what it takes to bring meaningful changes to the lives of people in the state and that is why we are saying we must seek the nomination form of our party to contest the 2020 Ondo governorship election.” It would be recalled that Adetula in 2016 contested the governorship election on the same platform, APC, but lost at the primary. Adetula who frowned at the way and manner the incumbent governor is running the affairs of the state for the past three years said Akeredolu led administration has offered what he could offer to the citizenry. He however, charged the people of the state not to lose hope; promising that there would be light at the end of the tunnel and that the bad times would soon be over. The US based legal practitioner strongly believed that he has the experience, exposure and leadership capability to salvage the state from the doldrums, and position it among the wealthiest in the country. He said he would prioritise skill performance and functionality, knowledge and experience, coupled with strong marketing values to fully utilize both human and natural resources available for the maximum development of the state. Adetula assured that with him as the governor of the state, Ondo would become an investment hub with great economic activities, resulting in employment opportunities and increased income accruing from internally generated revenue.