Moses Emorinken, Abuja In a bid to harmonize efforts in the prevention and control of public health threats from infectious diseases, especially the recent outbreak of the deadly coronavirus, experts from Nigeria, Ghana, Gambia, Senegal and 11 other West African countries, are developing modalities for effective cross-border risk communication. Effective risk communication forms a critical part of the mitigation, prevention, response and control, before, during and after recovery processes of the outbreak of diseases. In a workshop organized by the West African Health Organization (WAHO), the Regional Centre for Surveillance and Disease Control (RCDSC) and the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH Regional Pandemic Prevention Programme (RPPP), yesterday in Abuja, the Officer-in-Charge of risk communication on health for ECOWAS centre for surveillance and disease control, Dr. Babacar Fall, explained that the meeting aims to develop Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for risk communication between countries and regional entities and structures in public health emergencies (PHE). Often, a major challenge in outbreaks and epidemics involving more than one country is proactive and harmonized risk communication between parties and countries involved and speaking in one voice. According to Dr. Fall, “In the international health regulations, risk communication is number six. Risk communication in West African countries is not very strong and human capacity is not yet developed. Our mission is to reinforce this miscommunication at the regional and national level. “More than 60 percent of the diseases we face in our region come from animals. Therefore, West African countries need to move and work together because we have similar challenges and issues. “If we discuss human health and don’t take care of animal health, we will not reach our target and will end up jeopardizing the health indices of our countries. We therefore need to prioritize animal health, the environmental and human health. These three make up what we call – One Health”. He further added: “Once we develop the SOP, everyone at the national and regional levels will know what they have to do, who to contact, the level of urgency the situation requires, etc., in terms of communication and coordination, when there is a disease outbreak. It also assigns responsibility to various players at the national and regional levels”. Concerning financial capabilities of member states, he said: “The situation is not the same everywhere. Five countries are very aware of the importance of risk communication, and Nigeria is one of them. These countries have put in place human and financial resources for the implementation of risk communication, while others are in the process of doing same. We only need to be more organized at the national and regional levels. “Our mission is to put together our resources; the strong countries can support the weaker ones. We also have a lot of partners to support risk communication. Among the partners are World Health Organization (WHO), US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), and World Bank. World Bank has put in a lot of resources to finance risk communications processes”. Based on an assessment on risk communication actors, structures and processes conducted in 2018, the WAHO and RCSDC developed a regional strategy and an action plan for an initial period of 5 years (2019-2023) for risk communication in the ECOWAS region, to support the control of epidemics. Its objective is to enhance the visibility and importance of the topic in the ECOWAS region in epidemic prevention and control as well as establish a system and mechanism including the consideration of human rights/gender and the One Health approach. It will further support the strengthening and facilitation of cross-border collaboration and coordination particularly during emergencies. The training is being funded by the European Union (EU) and the German Federal Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ).