The Asaba storm drainage project has suffered many setbacks with successive regimes. OKUNGBOWA AIWERIE examines measures by the Delta State government to combat ravaging flash floods that have devastated neighbourhoods in the Delta State capital. With the rainy season imminent, many residents of Asaba, the Delta State capital are bracing for the worst, occasioned by the perennial flooding experienced in many parts of the metropolis. Although many residents are apprehensive of the coming rains and its attendant flash floods, they nevertheless, see it as a litmus test for the multi-billion naira storm drain project embarked upon by the Governor Ifeanyi Okowa administration in 2017. But will the N11.5 billion storm drainage project remove the spectre of ravaging flash floods in Asaba metropolis and its environs? While addressing reporters at a recent inspection tour of projects in Asaba, Governor Okowa said he heeded expert’s advice in tackling flooding in the state capital because his administration wanted a holistic approach. He said: “We wanted to be sure that we were on the right path. We did not just want to start constructing drains all over again without bringing solutions to the flood issues in Asaba. So, our consultants worked with the Nigerian Society of Engineers to provide us with eight options of drains.” Attempts by successive administrations at addressing the flooding issue failed, with only the unconnected and silted drainage running along parts of Okpanam and Summit roads and Lion House drainage, to show. The state’s Commissioner for Works, James Augoye said: “It was the ineffective state of floodwater control infrastructure that prompted the incumbent regime to embark on the project. According to Augoye, when completed, the three ongoing storm water routing projects in Asaba will address flooding in the state capital.  He said the Okowa administration engaged experts that undertook the study of the entire Asaba area. The commissioner said at the end of the study, eight storm water channels were outlined with their corresponding costs of which three were identified to be strategic and pressing. He expressed optimism that the perennial flooding in the area would be a thing of the past after the completion of the projects. His words: ”The first is the continuation and completion of the construction of the 2.44-kilometre length storm water control measures in Direct Labour Road (DLA) /Jesus Saves corridor in Asaba awarded on May 15, 2017 to CCECC at the cost of N1.7 billion. ”The second is the construction of 4.33 kilometre length storm water discharge channel along Delta Broadcasting Service (DBS)/ Umejei Adudu Way to Amilimocha River, Asaba, awarded to Setraco at the cost of N5.2 billion. ”The third is the construction of 3.5 kilometres network channels storm water drainage along Ambassador Ralph Uwechue Way to Anwai River, Asaba, awarded to CCECC on January 25, 2018 at the cost of N4.6 billon.” The fear of residents is further heightened with the realisation that government has not matched action with words. For example, despite assurances by the Delta State government to dredge the Anwai, Iyiabi and Amilimiocha Rivers have not materialised despite that the wet season will begin soon. Also, the Okowa administration’s threat to demolish several exotic homes built on natural watercourses within the Asaba metropolis is a source of worry to some residents. But the Commissioner for Information, Mr. Charles Aniagwu denied that government has plans to dredge the three Rivers, rather that government will desilt the storm drainage discharge point as it empties into the rivers. He said: “Government did not make such claims, rather the drainage system we are constructing will empty into those rivers and that government will desilt the point of entry into the rivers. We have done so. The desilting will make possible for the rivers to accommodate large volume of water so that it will spill into the fish farmers at Camp 74.” Aniagwu said the government was determined to check the menace of flooding, adding that several measures, including the demolition of houses on watercourses would be embarked on. Pressed on the shortness of time between the onset of rains and the urgency to demolish such exotic houses, Aniagwu maintained that “houses on natural watercourses that are causing havoc and making water overflow thereby causing damage to lives and property will be brought down. Continuing, he said: “Once we discover any as we make progress, we will act. At least, you can see the demolition of illegal structures taking place in Asaba.” Other measures aimed at combating flooding, according to Aniagwu, includes commencement of two additional drainage projects at the Asaba General Hospital axis and Upper Okpanam areas, adding that as part of efforts to tackle silting of drains, several secondary roads in Okpanam are under construction. A resident who lives on one of the adjoining roads off Okpanam Road, Mr Azubuike Idah lamented the havoc caused by the flood on his property, while hoping that the storm drains bring succour to home owners living on adjoining streets off Okpanam Road.  His words:” Our experiences have been most unpalatable, especially residents that live between Inter-Bau Roundabout and areas such as Eagle Square and adjoining streets. “The past few years have been terrible. Our properties lost value, many residents relocated. When it rains, we are afraid that our homes are submerged. I hope the efforts at channelling flood waters will give us respite.” An Okpanam resident, Mr Dominic Adewole said at its worst, the flood completely cut off vehicular movement between Asaba and Okpanam communities for several hours; leaving hundreds of workers stranded and unable to get home after work. He said many secondary roads in Okpanam needed to be asphalted to prevent drains from being filled with silt, adding that the prospect of the incoming rains is giving residents cause for worry. He said:” In the past, we lived in great trepidation once it threatens to rain. We are afraid our homes will be submerged. Our children are, often times, swept away by torrential rains and being stranded in Asaba after a hard day’s work and the effects it has had on our cars. Living in Asaba and the suburbs has been difficult. I hope the drainage system being constructed by the present government delivers.” On whether the effects of the flood control measures are being felt, Mr Adewole noted: “In my part of Okpanam, the problem of flooding, erosion and bad roads are not making us to see the effects, but there is a reduction in the volume of flood water into Asaba. The issue is on the effectiveness of the drainage constructed by the Okowa administration.” A civil servant, Ejime Udueme, who works as a journalist with the Delta State Broadcasting Station located in an area worse hit by the floods due to its low lying terrain, commended the state government for tackling the menace of flooding head on. He said this year’s rains will settle the question of whether the storm drainage project has done a good job at flood control or not. He said: “With the effort of government with regard to the storm drainage project, I think we are expecting relief this year than in previous years. The only fear is that the storm drains have not been tested. Hopefully, this year’s rains will put it to test. “But talking about the way this administration has tackled the issue of flooding, this Okowa administration has done well. Previous administrations never had the will to undertake such a multi-billion naira project despite hardship faced by residents.” A Civil Engineer and Chief Executive Officer, Jomex Engineering Limited, Chief Joseph Obi, said from his assessment, the project engineers did not take due cognizance of the topography of Asaba at the design stage. He said: “If due cognizance is not given to the topography of the locale despite government’s best efforts, in the long run the project will fail. On the project, Obi said: “Professionally, it is clear that the engineers are not doing their jobs properly. Judged from the high volume of flood waters last year, I expected better results. But let us await this year’s rains because there is the argument that the project last year was far from completed unlike this year when it is at least 90 per cent completed.”