The promulgation of six-month paid maternity leave in Ekiti State once again demonstrates the path-breaking courage of an administration that has never allowed considerations of scarce resources to prevent it from doing what it knows to be right. Taking effect from February 1, 2020, all nursing mothers in the public service of the state will be entitled to 180 days of paid maternity leave. The measure aims at improving maternal and child health, reducing infant mortality, facilitating work-life balance and enhancing gender inclusiveness. The significance of the measure cannot be overestimated. Ekiti joins Enugu, Kaduna and Lagos states in implementing a policy which goes beyond the provisions of the 2009 Labour Law which allows for 16 weeks of maternity leave at full pay. Unlike those states, however, Ekiti has far fewer resources with which to implement this policy. It is, in fact, one of the country’s lowest-ranked states both in terms of federal allocations and internally-generated revenue. Studies have shown that extended periods of maternity leave enable mothers to meet recommended exclusive breastfeeding rates, thereby improving the health and well-being of their babies. Employee turnover and absenteeism are reduced, job satisfaction is increased, and improvements are seen in women’s mental and physical health. For a country like Nigeria, where infant mortality rates of 60.662 deaths per thousand are among the highest in the world, policies like this one are critical. Instead of forcing mothers in the state’s civil service to choose between their jobs and their children, Ekiti State has created a situation in which women are allowed to be both good mothers and efficient workers. The state must seek to build upon this laudable initiative. Working with the state House of Assembly, organised labour and employers’ associations, the Ekiti State government should push through legislation that spreads the six-month maternity leave policy to the private sector. It must also facilitate the creation of breastfeeding-friendly spaces, creches and childcare facilities in its ministries, parastatals and agencies, and encourage private-sector organisations to do the same. A comprehensive enlightenment campaign must be mounted to promote the benefits of extended maternity leave, exclusive breastfeeding and raise greater awareness of the need for increased maternity protections in the state. More states and the Federal Government should seek to imitate Ekiti. In June 2018, the Buhari administration increased maternity leave for women in the federal civil service to four months; this should be raised to six months. Other states should begin work on raising their periods of maternity leave to six months as well; civil society groups, non-governmental organisations, women’s associations and other bodies must ensure that they move the issue of maternity protections to the front burner. Under the administration of Governor Kayode Fayemi, Ekiti State has become a beacon of progressive policies, with wide-ranging interventions in education, poverty alleviation, agriculture, and cultural development, among others. If more governors concentrate on the general well-being of the citizenry in this manner, Nigeria will definitely be the better for it.