 Former Legal Adviser to the former Speaker, Delta State House of Assembly Emma Dibia has advocated urgent constitutional reforms as a solution to the controversy that has trailed the recent Supreme Court judgments, especially in Imo and Bayelsa states. Dibia gave the Advice in Abuja while speaking to reporters at the occasion of his 50th birthday and the launch of his book entitled: Why Government Fails, stated that the recent Supreme Court judgments were not the making of the justices of the apex court themselves but offshoots of Nigeria’s obsolete and archaic laws which are begging for quick reforms. “The book is Why Government Fails: 50 Lessons Why Government Fails. The reasons why governments fail are inexhaustible and no society will function without proper and functional laws. Our laws are not very active, they are bad laws, they are old laws and they are long overdue for reformation. All of that affects us. “Our major problem in Africa is indiscipline on the part of government and on the part of the people. If you are disciplined, you won’t be corrupt. It’s actually the bad laws that we have that you saw playing out in those judgments (Imo, Bayelsa) that you heard. Those judgments were not as per the minds of the judges, they followed the law, even if the law is bad, that’s the law. So, the book actually proffers solution. “The book requests for urgent need for reformation, quick reform, not prolonged reform. We have very bad laws, those are things affecting us. For instance, the Bayelsa issue, no one said the deputy governor-elect forged his name, just that he changed things severally and he was removed on that basis and it became the will of the people.  “In a functional legal system, they would rather take him out alone and get another deputy. That will not affect the governor-elect because he didn’t have issues. These are bad laws that are affecting us which I addressed in that book.” According to the ex-legal adviser, though politicians are needed to win elections because of their understanding of the grassroots and mobilisation ability, because of their high level indiscipline and corruption, they should work at the party level ones the party wins elections and not be part of any government that wants to succeed. “You need politicians to win elections because they know the grassroots, they mobilise, they know all the intrigues, but you don’t need them in government because they will never drop their characters when they come into government. Take it or leave it, there is no decent politician anywhere in the world. “So, I’m looking forward to a president that would win election, gather his party leaders, explain to them why they can’t come to government keep them at the party level. We are in a nation-building process. “Then go shop for those who will run government; look for Nigerians who have distinguished themselves in their various fields outside politics. Career politicians can’t give you good governance. Look for them abroad, then go into the academia, look for professors.” On the performances of the Nigerian Custom Services, the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), Dibia stated that the successes recorded these agencies were because their current leaderships were of non-career politicians. He also deplored the practice of bi-cameral legislature in the country, stressing that some of the lawmakers were contractors and easily abstain from plenaries in pursuit of their personal businesses, but only appear during special sessions such as presentations by the President.