 IT is no exaggeration to say that many Nigerians cannot boast of being sure of getting to their destinations any time they  go out, either to earn their living or even for any  outing. They  will add that they are  not even sure of getting back home in one piece  each  time they  venture out. This  is not only because of the conditions of the roads,  which the Minister in charge has defended  as not being as bad  as being portrayed  by the media. The  fear of a journey of no return on a daily basis for Nigerians  stem from the atmosphere on our  roads    as well   as their    dismal  conditions  and again this is not about climate change or the smoke smog that has darkened the skies in far away India. This  is about the violence, the road  rage as well as the pervading anger  and  the vicious   mutual  hostility of Nigerian  road users,  and  the dangerous conditions of the vehicles they  travel in to survive and eke  a living. That  is shown  vividly  in the ways  the tri cyclists  and okada riders turn round in front of  speeding vehicles  as if  challenging the vehicle drivers   to ‘get me if you  can ‘ or ‘  knock  me down  at your peril‘.  It  explains why danfo  conductors wave off with dreadful   abuses and  oaths, vehicles  moving  in legitimate   traffic  direction which   the danfos   violate daily with impunity,  often  using uniformed soldiers  and other military  personnel  as fronts for  illegal   passage security. Overall,  it is as if there is a perennial  daily   class   war  going on,  on  a daily basis   on  Nigerian  roads. The  combatants  are okada  vs car  users,  danfo  versus tricyclists,  car  owners  versus okada  riders  and small vehicle owners  vs jeep  and big saloon  cars owners.  The  okada riders now dominate our main cities and they drive against the traffic,   block  road  junctions and descend in a  pack  to assault any motorist  that is involved  in any accident with them . It is not as if I  am  singling out the okada riders but  I want to show that both they and their customers view other three –  wheel or four   wheel  vehicles and their owners,   as enemies out to run both the okada rider and his customer out of the road and   they  are  ready to abuse and be violent  in protecting what they  perceive as their right of  way,  if not  existence. To  me this is a dangerous  development that  has created a vicious  daily  class  war on our roads   and   that needs to  be nipped in the bud quite urgently. Let  me state clearly  that the okada rider and tricyclist  have every  right to  earn their living on our roads  and highways but they  do not have to endanger the safety and rights of other road  users and it costs them  nothing to be polite and ask  politely for passage from other vehicles,  instead of taking the law into their hands by violating traffic rules at break neck speed .  What  I am  after today  is that while the politicians and party leaders are  putting heads together to tackle the prevailing and sickening kidnap  of judges in the  nation there is  a daily  danger  that Nigerians  are facing  in terms of the violence and rampant abuse and misuse  of our traffic  rules, by  those in the lower  ranks of society who  probably  are doing this to register their anger with the social inequalities and the huge  economic gap  between the rich and the poor in our  nation. In  the TV Documentary National Geographic,  wild  dogs  hunt  in packs and can  bring down large animals in a game  of  numbers. That  however is in the jungle. Today  however I am  talking  about the fear of  Nigerians  that  our roads  are  looking more  like  the jungle  because those earning their living on them  and through  them,  are not obeying the rules of engagement and passage and they  are  endangering the security of  life  property and safe passage of  Nigerians  travelling to work  to earn  a   living. If  innocent  Nigerians are afraid to go out to  earn a living on our roads  they may  decide to form militia or  cartels to protect  themselves and have right of passage to their destinations.  But   such  formations  on protection  is the legitimate  work of the police and army . It  is my advice that it is  urgent  for politicians especially at the local government  level  to come together  to put sanity on our roads and enable people  to  have confidence that  they will go out to work and return  alive. On  the condition of our roads it  is not surprising that  the Minister of Works  and  former Lagos  State  Governor  Raji  Fashola,  has  said  the situation  is  not as bad as people feel. He  should   however  not be  taken out of context or  vilified  for  saying that. All  he is saying is that    a lot  has been  done under his watch  and one cannot  blame him  for  that. The fact however is that armed  robberies   take place mostly at areas  where the traffic  is slow because  of bad roads  and construction work. Even  in Lagos  this week  those going home were  attacked by thieves and hoodlums on their way  home at night  because  of such developments.  Government  should provide  armed  security  at road  works and road maintenance posts at  night so  that  people can feel  confident  going home from  work. This  issue  is one that I think  the two  major political parties should  bury  their  hatchets    on  and join forces to attack  and defeat. This is because if  the people who are the electorate cannot travel  on the roads to earn their  living   then  their  confidence  in the political system  will  be sorely   tried  if  not  eroded altogether. That  can lead to voter apathy  or  mistrust   and that  is not good for  democracy.  Good  politicians should  not ignore their environment of which  the roads are  an integral  part for economic and personal survival of those who  put them  in power. Even  in the very rich US  and Britain politicians  join forces to pass   bills on infrastructure   that will  alleviate the sufferings of their electorate  and improve their quality  of   life . In  the US  the Democrats buried  the hatchet  and forgot their  hatred of  Donald  Trump  to pass  his huge infrastructure  bill   on  safe American roads  bridges and highways. In  Britain and with the hullaballoo of Brexit, the Conservatives have promised to   ignore their notorious austerity of the past,  to spend immensely  more on the  roads  and highways  in Britain and the NHS, to  woo  the electorate, post  Brexit  and   surely  the December 12 election will show if the British  electorate  has  forgiven or  is   believing them. Here  in Nigeria it  is not   too  late  to make our roads  safe for all  Nigerians to earn  a living without  the fear that their  lives can  be snuffed out on our roads  through  no fault  of theirs  on a daily  basis.  A stitch in time   surely saves nine. Once  again long live the Federal Republic of Nigeria.  •This piece was first published on November 9, 2019. It is being rerun because of the okada ban