 THE Senate is seeking the re-establishment of a military base at the Sambisa forest borders. This resolution was the unanimously adopted following the debate on last weekend’s Boko Haram attack on Adamawa State town Garkida. Churches, public institutions and houses were razed while some people were killed by the insurgents. The motion was moved by Seanator Aishatu Ahmed (Adamawa Central), who said three soldiers died while trying to repel the terrorists. The Army announced the death of one soldier and injury to another. The lawmakers urged the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) to “urgently assess the extent of damage and provide relief materials immediately to the Garkida community affected.” Senate President Ahmad Lawan said  the Senate would not  rest until the security challenges in the country were  surmounted. He said that the Senate Ad hoc Committee on Security Architecture would next week submit its report for deliberations. Lawan said: “The Senate has discussed and debated much about insecurity in the country and we setup an Ad hoc committee under the Senate Leader. “The committee is working very hard. We are trying to look for solutions to the insecurity bedeviling the country. “We are not going to rest on our oars until we are able to provide solutions to the insecurity in the country. “This is the essence of our being in government and of course, it would require that we work with the House of Representatives, the Executive as well as citizens. “I believe that citizens need to be taken into confidence in the fight against insecurity. “We will not waste any time. As soon as the report is ready, I believe it will be by next week,    we will look at it and take valuable resolutions and of course, engage the Executive arm of government.” Senator Ahmed in her lead debate said the Garkida  attack  had  “religious connotation.” The lawmaker, who said she had information  that  three soldiers were killed in the attack,  called on the Federal Government to take a more drastic action against the insurgents. She said: I am  aware that three soldiers were killed in the dastardly attack. “Also, property worth millions of naira were burnt or destroyed including: public hospital, schools, telecommunication facilities, police station, buses, cars, food stores, private property belonging to the good people of Garkida. “I am worried that the Garkida crisis which has led to the destruction of lives and property was planned by the insurgents to have a religious connotation considering that churches and residences of some prominent indigenes were burnt, an act aimed at destroying the foundation of peaceful co-existence among Garkida community and Adamawa State as a whole.” awa State as a whole.”