Should countries like North Korea and Iran, for instance, somehow get obliterated from the face of the earth, would the world become a safer, more secure and stable place? The answer would be yes if the fundamental principles of the foreign policy of successive governments of the United States – Republican or Democrats – are taken as gospel truth. But nothing could be more false. The reality is that the United States, which has the greatest capacity to do the greatest good and promote the cause of peace in today’s world, is also the most lethal and unpredictable threat to the continued existence of humanity. In the aftermath of the September 11, 2001 attacks on the twin towers in New York, President George Bush fingered Iraq, Iran and North Korea as the ‘axis of evil’ and declared the commencement of what he christened the war against terror. US troops have since been bogged down in Afghanistan and Iraq in what is turning out to be an unwinnable war despite the asymmetry in power disparity by the combatant parties in those distraught territories. The insatiable US greed to control the vast oil resources of the middle east is fundamentally at the root of the blood drenched, killing fields that formerly stable, even if undemocratic, countries like Syria, Iraq and Libya have become. These are countries where the US championed regime change without strategically thinking through on what would replace the dislodged extant stable order. After the terror attack of September 11, 2001, President Bush said “America was targeted for attack because we’re the brightest beacon for freedom and opportunity in the world”. Of course, the renowned linguist, philosopher and social analyst at MIT, Boston, Professor Noam Chomsky, incisively debunked any such platitudinous nonsense. In Chomsky’s words in 2003, “A lead analysis in the New York Times stated that the perpetrators had acted “out of hatred for the values cherished in the West as freedom, tolerance, prosperity, religious pluralism and universal suffrage”. Glaringly missing from the U.S. media’s coverage was a full and realistic account of U.S. foreign policy and its effects around the world. It was hard to find anything but a passing mention of the immense slaughter of Iraqi civilians during the Gulf War, the devastation of Iraq’s population by U.S -instigated sanctions throughout the past decade, the U.S.’s crucial role in supporting Israel’s 35-year occupation of Palestinian territories, its support for brutal dictatorships throughout the Middle East that repress local populations, and on and on. Similarly absent was any suggestion that U.S. foreign policy should in fundamental ways be changed”. It is instructive that Saddam Hussein was once a good boy of the U.S., which amply equipped and strengthened his Iraq army considerably. Yet, the same U.S. was to turn against Saddam and heavily armed Iran in that country’s long drawn eight-year war with Iraq. Similarly, the Taliban was trained and armed by the U.S. to resist the then Soviet Union’s invasion of Afghanistan. The Taliban was later to turn those same arms and skills against what it perceived as American imperialism just like Osama Bin Laden, another one time good boy of the U.S. turned ‘traitor’ to his former benefactor. Under President Donald Trump, the diplomatic finesse, which gloved the iron fist of the U.S.’s foreign policy, has been removed. Trump trumpets America’s military might with boyish enthusiasm. In the U.S.’s latest face off with Iran for instance, Trump gloated about his eagerness to test some of his country’s $3 billion worth of new ‘beautiful toys’ – deadly sophisticated weapons – on that country. Not content with tearing to shreds the nuclear arms deal between Iran, the U.S. and a coalition of other countries and imposing punishing economic sanctions against that country, President Trump ordered the recent killing of one of Iran’s top Generals, Qasem Soleimani, for reportedly plotting an attack against Americans. Anyone who remembers how President George Bush and Tony Blair of the United Kingdom manufactured the lie that Iraq had developed weapons of mass destruction as justification to attack the country for no tenable cause, would naturally take the U.S.’s claim in this case with a pinch of salt. The more probable truth is that Trump simply utilized the lawless state murder of Soleimani as a diversion from his impeachment travails at home. Most American Presidents have often resorted to foreign military adventures against disproportionately weak countries to buoy up sagging domestic support. I find it disconcerting that many Nigerian analysts simply lap up as gospel truth what the mainstream western media churns out as justification for the U.S.’s all too frequent acts of international outlawry over decades. Many analyses of contemporary global terrorism, for instance, hardly refer to the U.S.’s history of lawless military adventurism that has made her an object of intense hatred in many parts of the world. For instance, the book, ‘Anti-imperialism: A guide for the movement’, lists no less than 40 acts of military aggression against other countries by the U.S. between 1898 when she seized the Philippines from Spain to its war against Iraq in 2003″. How can anyone analyze meaningfully contemporary Iranian politics without reference to the overthrow of democracy in the country by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) in 1953 and how the country was nothing but the foot-mat of western imperialism before the 1979 Islamic revolution that overthrew the slavish and servile Shah dictatorship? Is Iranian democracy, as imperfect as it may be today, not better than the brutal monarchical dictatorship in Saudi Arabia that enjoys the Trump administration’s unalloyed support? The U.S. is best placed today to champion the cause of the total abolition of nuclear weapons in today’s world. Yet, it prefers the clearly unrealistic and unsustainable policy of the few countries that currently possess these weapons to retain them while preventing others from joining the elite club. It cannot work. Indeed, if Nigeria had the right kind of post-independence leadership, she should today have developed nuclear capability on behalf of the black race. For, with the rise of illiberal, right wing governments across the economically, technologically and militarily advanced countries today, the attempted re-colonization in future of a continually weak and vulnerable Africa cannot be ruled out. The acquisition of nuclear capability by a black African country must be a future deterrent desideratum. Given the hardly bridgeable gap, at least in the imaginable future, between the U.S. and other countries in the arsenal of conventional weaponry, America will retain her considerable global military superiority even without nuclear weapons. She thus ought to provide moral leadership to the rest of the world in the direction of totally abolishing the latter category of weapons from the face of the earth. In the words of the historian, Professor Niall Ferguson, in his book, ‘Colossus: The rise and fall of the American Empire’, published in 2005, “On land the United States has 9,000 M1 Abrams tanks. The rest of the world has nothing that can compare. At sea the United States possesses nine “supercarrier” battle groups. The rest of the world has none. And in the air the United States has three different kinds of undetectable stealth aircraft. The rest of the world has none. The United States is also far ahead in the production of “smart” missiles and pilotless high-altitude “drones”. The British Empire never enjoyed this kind of military lead over the competition”. Yet, as Professor Chomsky has argued in several of his writings, so critical has the military-industrial complex become to the health of the United State’s economy that she has no choice but to be perpetually at war for one reason or the other. He describes this as America’s ‘Permanent War Economy’. According to him, at the end of the Second World War, there was the fear among economists and policy makers in the U.S. that the country would slip back into the depression of the 1930s because an end had come to the “big period of government stimulation of the economy” that the war afforded. In his words, “See, the truth of the matter, and it’s very well supported by declassified documents and other evidence, is that military spending is our method of industrial management – it’s our way of keeping the economy profitable for business. So just take a look at the major declassified documents on military spending, they’re pretty frank about it. For example, N.S.C. 68 (National Security Council Memorandum 68) is the major Cold War document, as everybody agrees, and one of the things it says very clearly is that without military spending, there’s going to be an economic decline both in the United States and worldwide – so consistently it calls for a vast increase in military spending in the United States…”. Thus, every President of the United States, Republican or Democrat, has expanded military expenditures and sought one reason or the other to engage in foreign military adventures. America makes good business selling military equipment to other countries, including poor and impoverished ones, while investment in military research through the Pentagon also aids innovation and breakthroughs in other areas of advanced science and high technology. According to the late Professor Howard Zinn in his book, ‘A Peoples History of the United States’, “Randall Forsberg, an expert on military expenditures, had suggested during the presidential campaign of 1992 that “a military budget of $60 billion to be achieved over a number of years, would support a demilitarized U.S. foreign policy, appropriate to the needs and opportunities of the post-Cold War world”. However, the military budget kept increasing, even after the fall of the supposed target of the military buildup, and by the end of Clinton’s term was about $300 billion a year”. What would it take to fundamentally shift public expenditure in the U.S. from destructive military to productive social spending? Professor Zinn’s answer: “A radical reduction of military budget would require a renunciation of war, a withdrawal of military bases from around the world, an acceptance, finally, of the principle enunciated in the UN Charter that the world should renounce “the scourge of war”. It would speak to the fundamental human desire (overwhelmed too often by barrages of super-patriotic slogans) to live at peace with others”. Can the U.S. change herself fundamentally enough to lead the world in this morally ennobling direction? It is not impossible under the leadership of a person like Senator Bernie Sanders, the Democratic presidential aspirant, who categorically describes himself as a socialist. But that seems a far from realistic possibility.