 If you are reading this today, then consider yourself lucky, today am here to recommend and introduce you today to a platform and a website where you can sell your gift and bitcoin for naira hassle-free, they are fast, quick and pay in less amount of time, as we all know they are a lot of fraudsters, scammers and ripper all over the internet, one of the hardest tasks is to find a trusted and reliable gift card and bitcoin exchange platform or sites where you can sell your gift cards and bitcoin for cash. Today the solution is here. If you have ever been ripped off your gift card then you know the pains. Well, that’s over now. Personally, I have been selling gift card for quite a while now, so I know what I am saying here, the challenges I faced initially when I started was finding a reliable gift exchange site, so we decided to embark on some research. Eventually, with the help of friends, we discovered few platforms. But In this post, we would only recommend one because of our experience, their reliability, quick response and awesome rates. We consider them to be the best in the country, we called them the commander of the gift card exchange industry. If you have a gift card or bitcoin you want to sell for cash or convert to naira instantly we highly recommend you make use of Cardyork.com. They are the commander and leader when it comes to gift card exchange for cash. They buy your gift card and bitcoin and sent the money direct to your bank account. Why We Recommend Cardyork Cardyork is the most reliable platform to securely exchange your gift cards for instant payment to your bank account. While compared to many other platforms out there, Certain quality tests were carried out before arriving at this conclusion. We would not say this process was an easy one, rather it involved a lot of procedures. The conclusion, therefore, places cardyork at the top of all other related platforms. During our research to find a secure site to sell gift cards in Nigeria, we had to bring up what makes a site a good place to sell gift cards. Here are some things we considered:  A good platform is expected to   Now that you know all these traits, and how we came to this conclusion, there is an important question you’re dying to ask. Is there any platform in Nigeria that fits into this category? Yes is the answer! It’s no other than www.cardyork.com  Outlined below are the types of gift cards accepted on cardyork.com  You are getting convinced now and considering selling that gift card on cardyork.com. There is just one other question;  Why is Cardyork the Best  and secured platform to Exchange gift card and bitcoins for naira? Most websites are not safe and secure, you will be very sure of your gift card but after sending them the card they will tell you that your card has already been redeemed and many other stories like that. One of the core values of Cardyork is honesty. This and  several other reasons are why Cardyork is the best and secure platform to redeem your gift cards and sell bitcoin for Naira.  Consider more reasons like:  How to Exchange Gift Card for Naira on Cardyork?  Below are the steps to sell you gift card on Cardyork:  Step 1. Visit the website on www.cardyork.com Step 2. Click on the “Trade now” Step 3. Confirm their current rate Step 4. Send in the gift card or bitcoin Step 5. Receive Payment Yes it is that simple! How to Contact Cardyork Website: www.cardyork.com WhatsApp: 09055671348 Call: 09055671348  The website is just one click away, and their agents are available 24 hours in a day to attend to you and help you convert your gift card to instant naira. Get in touch with them today without further delays and you will have a reason to smile.  Please share the post with your friends and families on social media. 