Three days after he was sworn-in for a second term in office, on January 27, Governor Yahaya Bello announced his cabinet. He also appointed special assistants and senior special assistants, who will work for the realisation of the “Let’s Do More” second term mantra. According to the Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to the governor, Mohammed Onogwu: “From the moment his re-election was confirmed by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Governor Bello was ready for governance. “He had identified the pitfalls of leadership of the Confluence State through painstaking research, analysed available data and proffered short, medium and long term solutions and ready to consolidate. He left no one in doubt about the preparedness of his government to strengthen the gains of his first tenure and avoid all the downsides of the inception of his administration. “One of the seemingly intractable problems of Kogi in the past and Nigeria till this moment, is that of ethnic mistrust and religious disharmony. It is no longer the same as the people of the Confluence state now see themselves first as citizens of the state before their ethnic divisions and religious dissimilarity. Little wonder he was bold to admit in his inauguration address that uniting the rich human and natural diversities of Kogi State into a progressive and cohesive force for good, was the main achievement of his first term, and that it would remain a priority of his government going forward. “We shall not relent in weaving equity and equality into the fabric of our society and strengthening the bases for our coexistence.” Despite the odds against him, Bello got the endorsement of his critics, one after the other, including key family members of the late Prince Abubakar Audu, whose running mate, back in 2015, Chief James Faleke, was wrongly denied of the right to step into the saddle as governor. Faleke, a member of the House of Representatives, was to later flash, the ‘4+4’ fingers raise, when Bello came knocking at his Abuja residence. During his first tenure, criticism against his administration was stringent, at times from supposed inner circles, including his erstwhile deputy, Elder Simon Achuba, who went on air to castigate the government. Achuba was impeached and supplanted by the then Chief of Staff to the Governor, Edward Onoja, who later became Bello’s running mate. Bello has been consolidating on the olive branch extension to his former opponents, including his predecessor (s) in office, and others that challenged his style of administration during his first tenure. He has also promised to bring governance closer to the people, through the conduct of local government elections. According to political pundits, some of the developments however appear suspect and a ruse, including the proposed composition of the State Independent Electoral Commission (SIEC). The move they say appears to have hit the rock at the screening stage. Under Bello’s first tenure, handpicked administrators ran the the show in the 21 local councils, while the enthusiasm generated by the news of a properly constituted SIEC in the making seem premature, with the submission of Shiru Lawal, ersthwhile administrator of Lokoja LG, as the tentative chairman, and most probably a card carrying member of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The high expectations that trailed the announcement of the composition of the commission may have died down, following the intrigues and suspense. Bello had announced and forwarded eight names to the House of Assembly for confirmation. Weeks after the announcement and submission of the names, the legislative arm is yet to mention or listed it in the order paper. The SIEC members who had besieged the assembly complex with expectations to be screened, were only asked to do documentation. Aside observations that the nominated SIEC members are card-carrying members of the ruling APC, as claimed by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the coalition of civil societies have equally come hard on the composition for not being gender sensitive and inclusive of the civil societies. As it is, the high expectations for the state to hold council election later this year hangs in the balance. The issue of insecurity also appears a blight that might be hard to wish away and a likely dent on the capability of the new administration. The rising wave of cult related killings in the metropolis, which did not escape the attention of the House of Assembly under Speaker Prince Mathew Kolawole, who at a recent sitting called for a more concerted effort by all concerned in halting the trend, and the dangerous unabating cases of abductions of innocent Nigerians on the highways that straddle the state, will have to be addressed. The PDP has accused Bello and the APC of been indifferent to the plights of citizens as far as the security of life and property is concerned. The PDP lamented that the people can no longer go out or travel, ‘while sleeping with the two eyes closed is now a mirage.’ The party in a statement by its Director, Research and Documentation, Achadu Dickson, said with the establishment of state policing policy in neigbouring states, criminals will see Kogi as safe heaven to berth. The party said government ought to be proactive and call all stakeholders to the drawing board towards putting in place a state security architecture to halt the incessant killings and kidnapping ‘of our people on daily basis.” Similarly, others see no silver lining, nor cause to cheer in the days and years ahead, insisting that the years of not walking the talk is nowhere near. PDP said: “While talks of smaller government, re-engineering and revving up of the internally generatable revenue rent the air from the commencement of the second tenure, news coming out from the state Internal Revenue Service, KGIRS, does not appear inspiring. The shrinking of banking outlets, the most recent of which is the noticeable collapse of the two branches of the Union Bank in Lokoja, into one, is not a good pointer to a more robust economic prospects in the years ahead. Commissioners, SAs, SSAs are all whimpering appointees. Worse off are the LG administrators who are mere errand boys; you will pity them all, for the low levels they stoop just to cling into their positions. That is present day Kogi for you. We have a Czar in charge “Whether we like it or not, economic activities is near zero in our state. We have the Anebo, 200 Units, 500 Units, Commissioners and State Assembly Quarters, the International Park, the refurbished Kogi Hotels, KOSICA Centre Lokoja, the Abubakar Audu University Ayingba, all of which can be pointed to as the enduring legacies of past governors and even a former military administrator, but what is the tangible infrastructure that we’ve seen come up in the last four years?’’ ‘’Even in Boko Haram-infested states, such as Borno, you see governors invite the president to come and inaugurate eye-gaping projects, while we pride ourselves on Lilliputian undertakings. Peace and security is listed as projects in our state …we are a laughing stock, but we have become innured. The administration is living a fantasy, while key officials have gotten used to personalising government. The consolation being that governments will go and governments will come, but Kogi will remain. “Our people are suffering, while mansions are springing up by the day, particularly in the Government Reservation Area in Lokoja, all of which can be traceable to the new Sheriffs in town. The worst times are here with us, I tell you. “Commissioners, SAs, SSAs are all whimpering appointees. Worse off are the LG administrators who are mere errand boys; you will pity them all, for the low levels they stoop just to cling into their positions. That is present day Kogi for you. We have a Czar in charge,” said a critic. Other disturbing issues that may spiral politically, if not we’ll managed, include the alleged relegation of the deputy governor, Edward Onoja, who loomed lager than life, as the Chief of Staff to the Governor, during Bello’s first term. But, Onogwu has painted a forward- looking four years ahead. As part of the development focused second term, he alluded to transparency, fiscal responsibility, zero sectionalism, understanding and implementation of the New Direction Blueprint and open door policy. He described tribalism, nepotism, clan, class or religious sentiments as actuators of reasons to get them fired. He said: “We have spent the last four years dismantling the division and distrust long engendered among our people by these evils, and those who practiced them and we will never countenance the same in our appointees, neither will we retain anyone practicing them in our midst. “Governor Bello had also informed the commissioners that the New Direction Blueprint is his roadmap for accelerated development of Kogi State in all onstituencies and charged them to study it, understand it and implement it. “The five thematic areas will remain, but we are pulling out four former sub-thematic areas and making them full-fledged in this second term. These are: Human capital development, cooperation and integration in Kogi State (EBIGO agenda), security and agriculture. Bring your suggestions to the table and they will be given fair consideration, but run my blueprint and not your agenda if you want things to remain fine with you.” To achieve the lofty goals, Onogwu said that the administration will embark on large scale urban renewal projects to further transform Lokoja into a resilient capital with modern utilities, attractive to residents and tourists alike, adding that the beautification project will extend to at least one major town in each of the three senatorial districts of the state. He added: “We will sustain focus on agriculture for improved food security, mass employment and increase in internally generated revenue. We will take the agricultural revolution which we started in the first term to the Next Level. “One area the administration received a lot of kudos is in agriculture and it was refreshing to hear the governor mention that rice, cassava, cashew, aquaculture and livestock will remain the bedrock of his government.” For one, the body language of Bello, if not misread, should serve as enough pointer that better days lie ahead for the people of the state.