 The Nigeria Governor’s Forum (NGF) has requested the Ministers of Power and Water Resources, Engr. Sale Mamman and Engr. Suleiman Adamu to provide details about ongoing works in relation to the execution of the $5.8billion 3050MW Mambilla Hydro Electric Power Project (MHEPP). This formed part of the resolutions of members of the NGF at its meeting held in Abuja on Wednesday night. The forum decided to invite both minsters after entertaining a presentation from representatives of a firm, Hypertech Nigeria Ltd, who explained among others, that the contract for the MHEPP project was executed between the Federal Government of Nigeria and China Gezhouba Group Corporation (CGGC). According to a communique issued at the end of the meeting, which was read by NGF’s Chairman, Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, the forum agreed to support the Federal Government’s plan to plant 25 million trees as pledged by President Muhammadu Buhari as part of Nigeria’s commitment to its obligation under the Paris Agreement. The forum also pledged to work with the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning to ensure the successful execution of the Geo-Referenced Infrastructure and Demographic Data for Development (GRID3) programme in Nigeria. NGF promised to provide the right institutional arrangements in all states to ensure that each state supports the generation and management of geospatial data. Part of the communique reads: “The forum received a presentation from Hypertech Nigeria Ltd on the 3050MW Mambila Hydro Electric Power Project (MHEPP). The team highlighted that the project was executed between the Federal Government of Nigeria and China Gezhouba Group Corporation (CGGC). “The team gave an overview of the huge potential that is lying fallow in the Mambilla region which governors appreciated, but insisted that a presentation by the Ministers of Power and Water Resources would provide more granular pathway to what needs to be done. “The forum received a presentation from the Hon. Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Hajia Zainab Ahmed, on – the Geo-Referenced Infrastructure and Demographic Data for Development (GRID3) programme in Nigeria – a programme designed to strengthen the application of geospatial data for evidence-based decision making in the country. “The Minister also highlighted several applications of the programme in priority areas of government including food security, health coverage, financial inclusion, survey and demographics and education. “State governors commended the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning for coordinating the GRID3 programme which will be central to development planning, going forward. “Members pledged to work with the Ministry by providing the right institutional arrangements in all states to ensure that each state supports the generation and management of geospatial data. This will ensure that state governments have the right information in identifying where people live and how critical services can be most equitably and effectively allocated. “The forum received a presentation from the Hon. Minister of Environment, Mohammed Mahmoud Abubakar on the need to plant 25 million trees as pledged by Mr. President. “The Honorable Minister highlighted that the pledge is in line with Nigeria’s commitment to its obligation under the Paris agreement; the aspirations are also enshrined in our Nationally Determined Contribution. “State governors commended the Ministry of Environment for driving this initiative. Members pledged to work with the Ministry by ensuring that the right institutional arrangements are in place in all states to ensure that each state supports the tree planting initiative. “Governors agree that states should demarcate areas and gazette them as forest reserves. Governors also addressed the planting of trees that animals do not consume to ensure the sustainability of the forests. This will ensure that state governments get the economic, social and environmental benefits Nigeria’s forests provide. “The forum received a presentation from the Senior Special Adviser to the President on the Presidential Enabling Environment Council (PEBEC), Dr Jumoke Oduwole. The Senior Special Adviser briefed the forum on the activities of the council on the Ease of Doing Business at the Subnational Level. “The SSA disclosed that some states had already keyed into the project where results have been impressive. State governors commended the interventions and pledged to continue to support and ensure improvements in the business environment at the subnational level. “The forum received a presentation from Hypertech Nigeria Ltd on the 3050MW Mambila Hydro Electric Power Project (MHEPP). The team highlighted that the project was executed between the Federal Government of Nigeria and China Gezhouba Group Corporation (CGGC). “The team gave an overview of the huge potential that is lying fallow in the Mambilla region which governors appreciated, but insisted that a presentation by the Ministers of Power and Water Resources would provide more granular pathway to what needs to be done. “The forum received a presentation from the Director General of the National Youth Service Corps, Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim, on the need to optimize the potentials of Corp members. The DG also highlighted key areas of collaboration between the Corp and the forum. “State Governors commended the DG for his efforts since assumption of office and assured the DG of their support for the NYSC to enable it to achieve its goals both at the state and national level.”