The President of Nigerian Association of Nephrologists (NAN), Professor Ifeoma Ulasi, last week alerted the nation to the huge number of Nigerians battling kidney diseases. According to her, about 20 million Nigerians are suffering from various types of kidney diseases. That number is between 8% to12% of the population. The kidney is one of the most vital organs in the renal system. It helps the body to filter waste, which is passed out of the body as urine. It equally filters blood before sending it to the heart, maintain overall fluid balance of the body, regulate and filter minerals and waste materials from food and medications, and sifts toxic materials from the blood.   It equally helps to create hormones that help produce red blood cells, promote bone health, and regulate blood pressure. Due to the multifarious functions of the kidney, and its daily contact with various environmental pollutants, toxins in food, drugs and medications, the chances of kidney diseases, and total damage to the organ, are very high. Though NAN might not be very exact about the number of Nigerians with kidney problems, states and individuals seem to be recording many  dialysis cases, seek urgent need for transplants and chalk up many deaths from kidney ailments. According to nephrologists, kidney diseases can be congenital, genetic, result from other diseases like bladder, cervical or pancreatic cancer, blood clots in the veins or arteries, diabetes, high blood pressure, heart failure, age, chemotherapy, certain drugs and creams, pregnancy, low birth weights in babies, kidney stones etc. So invariably, given the myriad of possible causes of kidney disease, it is understandable why the quoted  number of patients is so high in Nigeria. The symptoms of kidney diseases range from decreased urine output, swelling of limbs, breathlessness and fatigue, to nausea, loss of appetite, decreased mental alertness, coma and even death. A diseased kidney leads to the retention of fluid.  This retention alters the electrolyte build-up in the body, which affects other organs and often leads to trauma and death. We see this NAN analysis about the number of kidney disease patients in Nigeria as very alarming; and another reason the country’s health sector must get urgent attention. The fact that too many other health challenges can lead to kidney failure must spur the government to action. Besides, it might amount to living in denial to continue to run the health sector without an adequate and comprehensive National Health Insurance Policy that can make healthcare more affordable; and prevent recourse to toxic herbal drugs and religious fatalism that  believes prayers alone heal ailments. Governments must be proactive in overhauling the health sector. Deaths from renal failure have been on an alarming increase because not only are patients showing up late to hospitals due to poverty and ignorance, lack of good hospitals across the country is a clear handicap.  Besides, nephrologists are too few in Nigeria. There are just 160 nephrologists to a population of about 200 million.  There are also too few dialysis centres in the whole country, and even those few are mostly concentrated in the urban areas. Acute and chronic kidney failures are often results of other neglected health conditions that impact on the functionality of the kidneys. It  means that if the country has a functional health and information system, that encourages citizens to get comprehensive tests periodically, some of the cases can be avoided; or detected early and treated, thus saving lives and money. Diabetes is reportedly the highest causative disease for kidney failure, followed by high blood pressure.  Free routine tests for blood sugar levels and high blood pressure; and information about effects of drug, narcotics, alcohol and herbal concoction abuses can help. Given that most citizens assume it costs a lot to get tested, many might have been saved if they started early treatment. “Prevention is better and cheaper than cure” must be a mantra from health institutions to the people. We equally feel strongly that the near-total neglect of rural areas, in health coverage and information dissemination, contributes a great deal to the huge number of patients with kidney diseases. Most times, the systemic chain is not considered in the resultant socio-economic loses.  Education, transportation and other infrastructure, are  often absent or ill-equipped in the rural areas, thus exacerbating the loses. Prof. Babagana Zulum, the governor of Borno State, recently requested for researchers to  dig into the huge cases of renal failure. While we commend the governor, we believe that the whole country needs an upgraded health sector and a functional National Health Insurance Policy that works for all citizens; while other sectors must be upgraded too for optimal functionality. We must take seriously the social dictum that a healthy nation is a wealthy nation. Twenty million or more kidney patients in a country with few nephrologists, and dialysis centres that charge about N100,000 weekly, is a subtle death sentence for millions. We cannot afford to continue losing citizens to these often preventable and curable diseases.