Mr Bayode Olawunmi, the 2018 Guinness Book of Record holder in Marathon Reading Aloud Vontest, on Tuesday urged schools to embrace Labster virtual laboratory to endear students to sciences. Olawunmi, also the Chief Executive Officer of I Read Afrika Foundation, made the call during the donation of 10 computer laptops to Comprehensive Senior High School, Alapere, Ketu, Lagos. The Guniness record holder said he had partnered with Labster, a Danish virtual simulation company, in order to enhance nation’s educational standard. He said that schools in the state must embrace the Labster virtual laboratory because it had simplified the process of experimentation, making it less cumbersome and expensive. He noted that the virtual laboratory gave students access to advanced expensive equipment devoid of spending on laboratory maintenance, assistance and consumables, thus rendering it cost effective for schools. “The Labster virtual laboratory allows students with lower knowledge and skill level to catch up with their peers. “It has incorporated pictorial technique, helping to facilitate better understanding of theoretical information for easy retention of information for students. “With virtual laboratories, science education can take place anywhere at anytime,” he said. Olawunmi said that Labster virtual laboratory had adopted gamification and story telling for easy comprehension in the processes of undergoing experiments cutting across all science subjects. According to him, the laboratory was conceived due to the high cost of building and equipping labouratories but not necessarily taking the place of physical labouratories. “The Labster virtual laboratory has been introduced to bridge the learning gap between Nigerian students and their contemporaries in other climes. “Labster is currently in use in China, Switzerland, Thailand, Denmark and the United States of America; we must embrace it here in Nigeria for our students to be able to compete favourably with their colleagues globally. “It is friendly, less expensive and provides platform for easy comprehension because we have quiz session after every simulation. “This school has been given 10 laptop computers along with 10 months free access to Labster virtual laboratory before the school takes over the subscription. “Teachers, I urge you not to deny these children of these gadgets, teach them how to use them so that they can emerge the best,” he said. Olawunmi said that the kind gesture would also be extended to four more schools within the state as Oriwu Model Senior Secondary School in Ikorodu also got 10 laptops last month. Earlier, the Lagos State Commissioner for Education, Mrs Folashade Adefisayo, represented by Mrs Olabowale Oresanwo, a Director from the state Ministry of Education, urged the students to take good advantage of the opportunity to improve on their learning. She urged the students to honour their teachers in order to make progress in their endeavours. The Principal of the school, Mr Sunday Olushogo appreciated the kind gesture, urging the students to remain focused to achieve remarkable success just like Bayode who had become Lagos state education Ambassador. “I want you to make good use of this application overtime so that you can also be of help to others in the future.
“You all must aspire to be great, we will ensure you make good use of these laptops,” he said. (NAN)