The port system has been criticised for its lack of efficiency. This has made it a nightmare for stakeholders in the sector. The chaos is blamed on congestion and lack of modern infrastructure. Experts say there is an urgent need for a modernisation and overhaul of the ports, MUYIWA LUCAS reports. The President, Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA), Iju Tony Nwabunike, may be self-effacing. But the soft-spoken freight forwarder seems to have embarked on a ‘crusade’ lately. The reasons for his crusade are quite understandable – the need for the country to have a virile and efficient port system. Last week, Nwabunike said there is a need for the speedy modernisation of the ports to enhance trade and competitiveness. He spoke at a roundtable in Lagos organised by the Association of Maritime Journalists of Nigeria (AMJON). According to him, several African countries, including Ghana and Cote D’Voire, are improving on their ports infrastructure ahead of the take-off of Africa Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA). One of such improvement, he noted, include access to port entry which is based on biometric data. He therefore feared that Nigeria might be left behind by other countries waiting to take advantage of the AfCFTA regime for intra African trade in line. According to him, AfCFTA will be a big embarrassment to the country if people come here to see that we are not prepared. “If you find out the preparation by Morocco, Algeria, South Africa and Egypt, you will know that we are going to find ourselves in an awkward situation on AfCFTA using ECOWAS trade liberalisation. He explained that in the table of countries ranked between one and 15 for port modernisation, Nigeria is not among the first five. This, he said, called for concern and the urgent need to make the country’s port like other international ones. “Not only our seaports, but also our land borders and airports. Lome Port, a small port, for example, is very decent. If you go there, you won’t believe it is in Africa, not to talk of being in West Africa. It is all about human beings and government policies. I think we can achieve it if we are very serious about it,” he said, adding that a modernised port will assist in achieving the government’s ease of doing business and trade facilitation. “We are only talking about the gridlock in our ports, we are not talking about dumping of containers, we are not talking about the concessionaires and shipping companies doing whatever they like to do. We are not talking about lack of scanners in the ports, we are not talking about multiplicity of government agencies at the ports, incessant influx of substandard and fake products coming into the country. We are going to talk about the truck and truck owners, the gridlock vis a vis the NPA and Customs, plant quarantine; not forgetting the issues of NICIS II; whether it’s going to be seamless and how they want to harmonise it. We want to talk about the standardisation of Customs in line with the World Trade Organisation (WCO). There is also need to talk about even the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) because we have them as very key stakeholders in port operations,” he said. While the ports in Lagos remain overstretched, leading to the planned cargo diversion to the eatern ports by the port landlord – the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), he said the alternative ports should be other areas like Calabar and others. Nwabunike also expressed worries over the under utilisation of Calabar port. He stressed the need for other  eastern ports to be revamped. He described Calabar seaport as very critical to the economy, considering the routes like Ebonyi and Benue states it has as links, leading up to the north. According to him, ANLCA has started moves, through the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, to engage the Federal Government in ensuring that the Calabar port and other seaports in the East are resuscitated for optimal and competitive trade. Nwabunike called on the management of the Nigeria Ports Authority (NPA) to consider the position of the ANLCA towards revamping the Calabar port for optimal utilisation, pointing out that the association would work to support government for the actualisation of the eastern ports like that of Calabar. “We have a lot to discuss with the Federal Government and one of such is the total modernisation of our ports. If you look at our ports, you cannot be compare it with the port of Tema (Ghana) because there are so many negative things to talk about the ports. “We mentioned specifically who is dredging the Calabar port for almost seven years. There is this contract for the dredging of Calabar seaport for years and nobody knows about them. Why are they not facilitating the job on time and what is the actual problem? So, the issue is very clear that we need to know the company handling the Calabar port dredging contract and let it be dredged immediately,” he said. He urged the contractors handling dredging of Calabar port to expedite actions in completion of the project adding that the peculiarities of the Cross Rivers State-based port has proximity by road to the hitherland and landlocked country in the sub-region, an attribute he said could open up the region for better trading opportunities. Nwabunike, nonetheless, thanked the government for her interest in getting Calabar port work at optimal capacity and advised that the contractors given the dredging be directed to start operation as it would go a long way to making the ports more accommodating for ships and reduce the pressure on some of the ports.