 WHAT is your take on the appointment of a classroom teacher by the Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq as the commissioner for education and human capital development? It is a welcome development. It is the first of its kind in the state. But as good as it is, there are many challenges. It is good in the sense that a teacher knows the problems he or she is facing. So it is not new to her now being the commissioner. She knows the problems teachers are encountering in the state. To start with, our working environment is not conducive. You can imagine schools with a population of between 500 and 800 students without toilets and incinerators. This speaks volume about the health of the students, not to talk of the teachers that are teaching them. And most of our schools don’t have laboratories. The classrooms are dilapidated. All these things have been going on for many years. But with the commissioner who is a teacher and a product of this ill-arrangement, I think she will be able to reserve the ugly trend. Talking about teachers’ welfare, the state government is owing salary arrears, promotion and what have you. So the commissioner is very much aware of the problems teachers are facing in the state. The current administration has started renovating schools. I enjoin the administration to also consider the welfare of the teachers, in addition to putting the classrooms and other things in place. I can say it with emphasis that teachers in this state have been badly treated. Go to all the sectors, teachers are treated differently. At the Teaching Service Commission (TESCOM), teachers were promoted last with financial backing in 2014. This is 2020. Those that were promoted and were given letters in 2015, 2016 and 2017 were without cash backing. So, it is regarded as no promotion. Teachers working with the state Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) were promoted last in 2016. When you see teachers in the state talking about their welfare, it is not as if they are demanding for something new. These are things people in other sectors are taking for granted. People don’t feel happy in a situation where you see your contemporaries in another ministry getting  his or her promotion seamlessly. By the time that person gets to the position of permanent secretary, you in the classroom will be on either level 15 or 16. We implore the new governor to address all these inadequacies in the promotion of teachers so that the infrastructural facilities and all other things being put in place will be judiciously utilised. What is your reaction to the recent fine the West African Examinations Council (WAEC) slammed on over 160 schools in the state for alleged examination malpractices? It is saddening. As teachers we are not happy. Principals are not happy because it has cast a dark spell on our profession. But when things happen; when problem arises, people don’t look into the remote and immediate causes of the problem. The penalty shows lack of insensitivity of the past administrations in the state as far as education sector is concerned. During WAEC examinations, a student sits for between eight and nine subjects maximum and such school is having only about six teachers, including the principal and vice principal. That means naturally, the system has designed that school to fail. And the community on its part wants the success of the students from that school. The parents also want their wards to succeed. But all the things put in are not good enough to achieve that success and everybody wants to pass at all cost. It is a serious burden on the teachers. It just like the security challenge where the police are armed with inferior guns but armed robbers are holding AK47 rifles. How can the police match the superior fire power of the armed robbers? At the end of the day, you will say the police are not performing. But the lapses are there. Cheating is also bound to take place in an environment where the classrooms are dilapidated, because the students would be crammed in a single classroom. This is the era of android phones and the like. The principals cannot see all. What we are saying in essence is that feeling hungry is not an excuse for you to steal food. I am not exonerating the principals, but it is a challenge to the principals to be extra-vigilant about the students. And the Ministry of Education too had to take note of the type of registration taking place. Why is it that a student who spends SSS 1 and SSS2 in a school now seeks for transfer to another school for his or her SSS three? There should be a law that a student must conclude his or her SSS3 where he or she starts his or her SSS1. For such a transfer to come up, the student must be moving from one town to the other. All these shortcuts need to be looked into. We appreciate the governor for looking at the education sector’s problems holistically. If he had not looked at them holistically, he would have punished the principals through dismissal. He looked at the problems that led to examination malpractices in the affected schools and decided to bail out the principals. He promised to put things in place in the schools, urging the personnel (principals and staff) to be extra-careful. And he paid the penalty from WAEC. We thank the governor for his fatherly role and we promise sincerely that Kwara State will bounce back as one of the first examinations friendly States in the country. What about the challenge of the earth of teachers? On the issue of inadequate teachers, even the Kwara State House of Assembly members have impressed it on the state government to employ and deploy more teachers to the rural areas. Government needs to take proactive measures. The villages are part of the whole state. A situation where teachers are lumped in the urban centres is not good enough. There should be even distribution of teachers for us to know where teachers are lacking. The state government needs to employ more teachers. And we are now lucky that we have professionals outside that are looking for teaching jobs. The era of making teaching an all comers’ job is over. I can say emphatically that the Kwara State teachers met the 2019 December deadline for teachers set by the Federal Government. We promise we are going to put in our best so that the result will be good very soon. Why do teachers refuse posting to rural areas? For teachers to run away from the rural areas claiming lack of facilities is not tenable. Students are in those areas. In those days, you cannot move away from your primary place of assignment until you have spent a minimum of five years. But now, everybody wants to be in town. In fact, in those days, the problem we used to have was even with the communities. The communities then would complain of teachers using their children for farming activities. But these days, some teachers don’t even want to be part of the communities. You must be part of the community before you can succeed as a teacher. But these days, everybody wants to be in the town. It is supposed to be a rotational thing. Other things that can improve the capacity and skills of teachers include training and retraining. This has long been abandoned in the state. What can the state government do to ensure teachers posted to rural areas stay? There should be a law making them stay. We need to stick to policies. We should shy away from just documenting reforms; what we are putting on paper must be executed. For instance, in Kwara, how many students do you want in a classroom? If it is 30, 40 or 50, there should be a law mandating all to follow it religiously. There should be a law that any teacher that is transferred to a particular place, except on emergency, the person should not leave that place in the next five years. There should be people, apart from the principals, who will be monitoring the teachers. We should have quality assurance people. Another thing is that government should not play politics with education. A situation where you transfer about 300 teachers and politicians are coming from different angles to influence their posting is not helping us. This should be avoided in the education sector. Government is the employer; it should stay by the rules spelt out for teachers. There was a time in the state that a commissioner made it mandatory that any principal that had spent over six years in a school should be transferred. There wasn’t anything we could do than to comply. Because if you are stagnant in a place, you think you have done well until another person comes and digs new grounds. Education had been in shambles in the state before the current administration. But in theory, they would say ‘it is good here.’ It is not good. It is extremely bad. To whom much is given much is expected from that person. But the least is given to the teachers in Kwara and much is expected from them.