 STANDARD Chartered has has announced new business targets for supporting its clients as they transition to a low carbon economy as part of its Sustainability Aspirations. By the end of 2024, the bank commits to providing $40 billion of project financing services for infrastructure that promotes sustainable development. It will also be providing $35 billion of project financing services, mergers and acquisition advisory and debt structuring services for renewables and clean tech projects (solar and wind). Underpinning the aspirations, Standard Chartered also intends to reduce its emissions across its global properties by 2030. With an office footprint spanning 60 countries, including many large emerging markets, the Bank will achieve net zero emissions by only sourcing energy from renewable sources and continuing to pursue energy efficiency measures across its 12 million square feet of property. Group Head, Corporate Affairs, Brand & Marketing, Tracey McDermott, said: “Over the past 18 months, we have made a series of commitments which are all geared towards supporting the Paris Agreement on climate change and the transition to a cleaner, greener, fairer economy. We know that the investment required cannot be provided by governments and NGOs alone, so it is critical that investors embrace the Sustainable Development Goals at pace and scale. “Our unique footprint means we are well placed to help get finance to where it matters most. That is why, as well as ceasing support for clients who generate more than 10 per cent of earnings from thermal coal by 2030, we also have a renewed target for financing and facilitating $35 billion of clean technology and renewables, and $40 billion of sustainable infrastructure.” Regional CEO for Standard Chartered, Africa and the Middle East, Sunil Kaushal, said: “It is estimated that emerging markets need an annual $2.5 trillion investment to meet the SDG targets by 2030. A bulk of this investment will need to be focused on Africa and the Middle East, which is home to some of the key sustainable development opportunities. 