 An Arewa group under the auspices of Northern Coalition For Peace and Development has called on the Federal government to consider amnesty for armed bandits and kidnappers terrorizing the country. The group said amnesty and dialogue with the bandits may bring an end to the current insecurity bedeviling the nation. Addressing a press conference in Kaduna on Tuesday, the northern group also described as mischievous calls for the sack of service chiefs, saying such call is not in the best interest of the country in the present circumstance. National Secretary of the Coalition, Comrade Attahiru Adamu said that, efforts of governors of Zamfara, Sokoto and Katsina states, particularly over their role in achieving effective resolutions by way of reconciliation and peace accord with bandits is quite commendable. “We commend the efforts of governor of Zamfara, Sokoto and Katsina states, particularly over their role in achieving effective resolutions by way of reconciliation and peace accord with bandits so as to remedy the issue of security challenges confronting their states. Such actions have meritoriously brought a relative peace among people in different parts of their states. We call on Presidency to create an environment of synergy with these governors and put it on trial. “Majority of those calling for the sack of Service Chiefs are not sincere, as they failed to offer reasonable alternative before now to Mr. President on how to tackle issues of insecurity and way forward on other challenges facing our country. “They are only seeking the dismissal of the security chiefs in order to see the appointment of those they can push around to do their bidding at the expense of collective interest”. The group also condemned in the strongest terms politicizing the issue of national security by some groups among our political elites which they described more dangerous and poses a serious threat and concern to challenges facing our dear country today. “There is urgent need for Nigerians to unite and support the efforts of both the Federal and state governments towards fighting crimes such as insurgency, banditry, kidnapping, armed robbery among others within the corridor of their homes so as to bring a lasting peace and cohesion among us. “Arewa Youths are encouraged by the progress that the Police, Military and other security agencies have made through collaboration with some state governors to tackle issue of security challenges in the region. “We urge Mr. President to order arrest and prosecution of any person, hiding under the umbrella of ruling party caught sponsoring thuggery, incitement and mischief against the issue of national security, no matter how close or powerful he might be with the Presidency. “While praying for success towards bringing lasting peace in our nation, we urged all Nigerians irrespective of political lineage to support these efforts by contributing immensely to the unity, political cohesion and peace among all Nigerians. “While commending President Muhammadu Buhari over his commitment towards genuine interest shown at bringing lasting peace and security among Nigerians, we advise Mr President to organize a special summit where he will meet with the Northern States governors, retired security officers, political, traditional, community and religious leaders in some of the security prone areas, get direct on-the-point voices of reasons among them for decisive action against insecurity in the worse hit areas and the country as a whole.” The group stated.