 A truck conveying chippings on Wednesday crushed a police officer on a stop and search duty to death along Owerri/Okigwe expressway in Imo state. The incident which occurred at Atta in the Ikeduru Local Government Area of Imo state caused panic in the area. When our correspondent visited the scene of the incident, other police officers were seen at the scene of the incident. The incident caused heavy traffic gridlock on the expressway as people surged to the scene of the incident. The lifeless body of the police officer was seen on the ground, but gun wielding police operatives did not allow people to come close. This was just as the trailer fled without stopping. A motorist, who simply identified himself as Iyke Don, told our correspondent that the heavy duty truck crushed the officer after the cop had waved at it to stop so as to collect the usual N50 ‘roja’. He said that the trailer which was on a speed lane and blared his horns repeatedly and rammed on the police officer who refused to go out from the tarred road. He said: “A truck loaded with chippings crushed him after he flagged it down and it refused. The victim who was on a stop and search duty with his colleagues refused to run out of the main road. Other police officers went after the killer truck and driver but I am not sure if they were able to get him” When contacted, the police spokesperson in the state, Orlando Ikeokwu, said that the command had been communicated. He said: “We have just been told. I am just hearing it. Necessary action has been activated by the command. The command is saddened by the sad development”. Also, tragedy was on Wednesday averted as a house wife stabbed her husband, Jude Madu while he was at sleep. A neighbour of the family, who pleaded anonymity, told our correspondent that the enraged wife had suspected that her husband was cheating on her. The source said that the woman waited until her husband slept before stabbing him three times. He said that the man who woke up ran out and was rushed to federal medical center, Owerri, for medical treatment. According to the source, “Mr. Jude Madu, a resident of Owerri was allegedly stabbed by his wife who suspected her husband of having a side chic. “The man luckily escaped and was rushed to the Federal Medical Centre Owerri where he is in critical condition and receiving treatment. “Mr. Jude reportedly jolted up from sleep and ran for his dear life after his wife stabbed him three times while he was fast asleep.”