 If you have been following the compelling love story of Gumsu Fatima Abacha, one of the lovely daughters of the late military dictator, Gen. Sanni Abacha, with keen interest in the last 20 years, you will accept the fact that she has been quietly enjoying her matrimonial life with her Cameroon-born billionaire husband, Bayero Fadil Mohamadou. Gumsu never wates time in displaying their love and affection on social media; she does it at the slightest opportunity, especially on their wedding anniversaries or his birthday. Years ago, when Gumsu turned 42, her billionaire hubby threw a little shindig for her at the Pullman Douala Rabingha Hotel in Cameroon. Sources close to the erstwhile couple said their love for each other was infectious as Bayero treated her like a princess, sends her rose flowers all the time to cement and assure her of his undying love. Everything went rosy and sweet like a comedy novel not until tragedy struck in December, when information had it that the union had hit the rocks. They duo parted ways due to irreconcilable differences. According to sources, Gumau and Bayero don’t see eye to eye. The bad blood between them has taken a new twist. To further confirm the authenticity of the lingering breakup rumour, Bayero quickly updated his Wikipedia profile, with his new status showing he has parted ways with Gumsu. The couple tied the nuptials in May 1999 at a grand ceremony held in the ancient city of Kano. Their two decades of marital odyssey was blessed with five children. The duo have agreed to co-parent peacefully. Bayero is the C.E.O of Fadil, an agro-industrial group prominent within Central Africa, which operates in several sectors including soap, oil extraction, tourism, livestock, and information technology. As a computer enthusiast, he graduated from Bates College in Lewiston Maine, and the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn in New York City. But rather than Gumsu to recoil into her cocoon following her failed marriage, the socialite has moved on as if nothing ever happened in her life.