In one fell swoop, 74 political parties were deregistered by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). As the Commission explained, it was in accordance with the powers granted the election managers by the Constitution and the Electoral Act. In realisation of the fact that the requirements for political party registration are too weak, the lawmakers, while acknowledging the right of Nigerians to participate fully in the political process, equally made provision for deregistration of those merely existing in name. The 2019 General Election showed that most of the 92 political parties on INEC’s register are too weak to perform the roles expected of them, while complicating the electoral process. Some could not even field candidates for any office, while even some residential candidates were clearly jokers. They had no campaign structures in any state, no agent at the polling units and failed to garner as much as 5000 votes nationwide. The parties have their sympathizers.  For instance,  35 of the affected parties took the Commission to court, ostensibly to defend their fundamental right to exist as parties, as long as they retain the minimalist conditions for registration. Their supporters accuse INEC of usurping powers that exclusively belong to the electorate. Others concede that though section 225(a) of the grundnorm had been amended to empower INEC to deregister lifeless parties, INEC did not fulfil the conditions spelt out for such de-registration. One of the contentious specifications is that parties that manage to return a councillor, after local council elections, earn the right to keep their certificates of registration. The matter is, therefore, in court with the parties contending that many states are yet to hold the local government elections.  So, to deny them existence, and the right to participate in council polls whenever the state are ready, is preemptive and capricious. While the matter is sub judice, the principles are up for debate. So, we are convinced that drafters of the law did not envisage that Nigerians would come up with so many parties, some without offices and the most basic facilities. This is a very serious matter in the political life of Nigeria.  We should, therefore, be wary of  handing very serious matters to pretenders. Many of the parties that lack effective presence hold leadership positions in the Inter Party Advisory Council, that INEC regularly consults in preparation for elections. When any of these parties (despite not campaigning, but managed to nominate a candidate) has complaints about the ballot paper, it heads to court, seeking annulment of the election. Some of these fringe parties are also held in store to bargain with nomination losers from the major parties, thus for a fee, wilfully abusing the registered parties for crass commercialism. It is time, therefore, that INEC, lawmakers and other stakeholders amend the laws explicitly to enable the Commission exercise more than monitoring roles. Courts have managed to whittle down INEC’s power to effectively supervise the process.  This must be reversed. The Federal Electoral Commission (FEDECO) of the Second Republic (1979-1983) came with stringent criteria for registration and consequently allowed only five parties to field candidates in the 1979 elections, adding only one more before the 1983 General Elections.  That 1979 model should be re-adopted, making  the conditions for registration more stringent. Along this line, we recommend that the Indian model of allowing all political associations to test their strength first at the state level be adopted. Only parties that manage to score at least 10 per cent of votes, cast in the governorship election of at least three states, should participate in federal elections. A time when the ship of state is floundering is no time for experimentation. If Nigeria must rise again, it must get the electoral system and electioneering process right.