Perhaps the Scripture had had in mind Prof. Dipo Kolawole when it was written of him in Proverb Chapter 22, Verse 29 that “Seeth thou a man diligent in his business, he shall stand before Kings and not mean men”. I had cause in the early 2000s at a communal reception held for Prof. Kolawole over his professorial elevation at the then Archbishop Adetiloye Memorial Hall of St. Paul’s Anglican Church, Idagba, Efon Alaaye, to allude to Prof.  Dipo Kolawole as the modern Socrates given his attributes in brilliance, diligence, guiding and persuasive nuances or practice of often leading/mentoring or reforming anyone that comes across him to a better path of knowledge and improvement. From a personal experience, I can testify that there is just no way that someone younger or his peers could relate/interact with D.K. without having an experience, most often better or quality experience for development. This was a man; I have had series of tales told about his ‘youthful rascality and stubbornness’ until I met him physically for the first time about the end of December, 1985.  It was at a wedding engagement of one of his siblings in Ikere-Ekiti.  At that occasion when I heard him speak to thank the betrothing family for giving out their daughter to the Kolawole’s, I instantly albeit, inadvertently fancied his mien, delivery and intellectual showmanship. Ever since almost that 35 years of first experiencing the personality of D.K, I have remained entangled and connected to him and may I confess that apart from things of spiritual blessing and God’s unwavering support.  Prof. Kolawole is he that has had the greatest influence in my career path and direction, and this apparently, seems one of the reasons why he has had a kind of cult-like followings everywhere; whether from the classroom; in administration or academic leadership; at the level of our Efon Alaaye community and every other space and sphere of influence that he has had the chance to lead/exercise authority. Prof. Dipo Kolawole has a knack for following up on his Mentees to ensure that they are well guided on the track for determined success. May I therefore also testify to the fact that Dipo Kolawole had indeed and has continued to elicit greatness from many of us in his followership.  I doubt if anyone can dispute this claim. From my own reality, when Prof. Kolawole became the Special Assistant to Prof. Tunde Adeniran, then as Honourable Minister of Education, I had actually desired to secure political appointment and almost got one, but Prof. Kolawole called me aside one day and said “Ade, you surely deserve an appointment and it is not out of place to facilitate political appointment for you, but I think otherwise that you should rather build a career before ending up as a career politician.”  He said further, “given your attributes and media experience, I also think that you will do well in Institutional administration before we focus in another realm”. That marked the beginning of my odyssey into administration since year 2000, and Prof. Kolawole, apart from making contact facilitating the first appointment, had also written upon request at every point of elevation and other prospects, beautiful and strong recommendations in support of my promotion/appointment, this he has done continuously up to January this year. A bosom friend of mine and one-time P.R.O. of OSUA Students Union, had at the professorial reception held for Prof. Kolawole in Efon Alaaye almost 20 years ago, gave an attribute that should only be reserved for the Almighty God to Prof. Kolawole when he described him as “Atori eni ti ko sunwon se”.  i.e. “A panel-beater of blight destiny” To his students and many of us who got so remoulded through Dipo Kolawole’s deft knowledge, patronage, mentorship and training in character skill, our benefactor and mentor is one strong leader, who believes in people’s ability and harbours no patience for failure or excuses.  He like his ancient brand, Socrates has a cultivated knack for leading mentees to rediscover their real self.  Whenever you acted foolishly, Prof. Kolawole will skin/dissect you down to ensure that you realise your folly and when otherwise, he will encourage you to the extent of re-enacting your attainment or recording another feat.  This is why I, about two decades ago, described Prof. Dipo Kolawole as “commander of the success-brand and as the enigmatic modern-day SOCRATES. If we may ask, who is Socrates? I gathered that Socrates was a philosopher of practical reason, who lived in the fourth century.  Socrates in his attempt at clarifying issues of life often feigned ignorance in order to encourage others to express their views fully.  Socrates was no respecter either of persons or hallowed beliefs in his quest for truth.  I think Prof. Dipo Kolawole also took a fair share of this Socratic attribute. Socrates, a man of ideas, in his emphasis for knowledge, had propositioned that “people will obey willingly only those whom they perceive to be better qualified or more knowledgeable than they are in a particular situation”.  Apart from being himself a leader of ideas, Socrates was recorded as the first person to ask some of the key questions about the nature of leadership”.  Anyone close to him will agree that Prof. Kolawole has indeed at every opportunity demonstrated real leadership whenever in post. If I may therefore ask from all those who have had the rare privilege to sip from Prof. Kolawole’s gourd of classroom knowledge or experience through any form of relationship or interaction with our man of honour, whose gentle mien belies his strong character and passion for only excellence and nothing else.  I think we will certainly end up with barrage of testimonies, not only about the good nature, the giving attributes, the leadership acumen, care and candour as well as the straight to the point/frank attitude of our object of honour. The ancient brand of Prof. Kolawole, Socrates also posited that, “there are three main forms of authority in human affairs, the authority of position or rank; the authority of personality and the authority of knowledge.”  Prof. Kolawole apparently combines the three prescriptions as a very strong personality and one who has applied knowledge and foresight in his ranks and positions held thus far.  And the gathering for Ekiti State University Maiden Valedictory Lecture also underscores the emphasis in Socrates postulation that “it is the man or woman who knows what to do and how to do it, who will be obeyed, especially in times of crisis. Prof. Dipo Kolawole indeed has been inspirational; he has definitely seen it all as he continues to be a motivator to us all.  I pray that he, following his exit from EKSU to retirement, lives long on this terrestrial domain as he continues to impact lives more positively.