The bill to provide legal backing for the Western Nigeria Security Network codenamed Operation Amotekun in Oyo State is being expected by the state lawmakers this week. The Chairman, Committee on Information, Oyo State House of Assembly, Hon. Kazeem Olayanju, told The Nation on Sunday that the Assembly was prepared to receive the bill this week. He said the Assembly was expecting the bill to be submitted before this Friday based on the level of work being done on it by the Executive arm of government. “The bill will come in this week. We are expecting it latest Friday of this new week,” he said. When asked if the state lawmakers were prepared to give it a speedy passage, he said: “Very seriously. Once it comes, there won’t be any delay because we are waiting for it already.” Speakers of the assemblies in the six states that make Southwest Nigeria had met in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital a fortnight ago where they reviewed the establishment of Amotekun and agreed on the need to give speedy passage to the bill on the outfit to make it legal in each state. The states are Oyo, Ondo, Ogun, Osun, Ekiti and Lagos. The Attorneys General of the six states will also meet again this week to review their efforts at providing the appropriate legal backing for Amotekun. They also met in Ibadan two weeks ago during which they agreed on the modality for giving legal teeth to the outfit. A three-member committee was set up among the six at the meeting. The committee was given two weeks to submit its report on how best to handle the legal approach to Amotekun. A source disclosed that they will meet again this week to finalize the approach to be used. Operation Amotekun was launched on January 9 in Ibadan but was declared illegal by the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), Mr Abubakar Malami (SAN) on January 14. He said the constitution does not provide for a region to establish a security outfit. His position, which caused public outrage, forced the six states to sit down to find a way to give the outfit a legal backing.