 A Pharmaceutical Scientist, Prof. Babalola Chinedum Peace, on Wednesday advised the Federal Government to work towards moving from diagnosing coronavirus (Covid – 19) to discovering curative drugs or vaccines for it and other viral diseases. Mrs Babalola  who is the Vice – Chancellor, Chrisland University, Abeokuta, Ogun State,  said the country should not wait until emergencies come, on the contrary, there should be the  readiness every time to handle outbreaks of both known and new diseases. The Winner of the 2019 edition of the African Union(AU) Kwame Nkrumah Awards for Scientific Excellence Regional Awards for Outstanding Achievements,  spoke in her office at the Chrisland University, urging the Federal Government to commit more resources into the Nigeria Centre for  Disease Control(NCDC) to enable it to tackle health emergencies. The highly competitive Outstanding Achievements Awards in Science and Technology, was conferred on her at the 33rd Summit of AU last February 10th and 11th, 2020 at Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. She noted that most drugs in use in Nigeria and Africa were manufactured with Caucasians as test case during the preparation and trial processes, saying this informed why there exist cases of adverse reactions and low or  efficacy because Africans are genetically different from the Caucasians. She however, disclosed that it will take a between 10 and 15 years to evolve a curative drugs or vaccines for any disease, stressing that the financial implication is also gargantuan. The University Vice – Chancellor said it would take between $1 billion to $ 2 billion investment in drug research to discover therapeutic drug or vaccines for an ailment such as the corona virus, advising Nigerian Government not to be discouraged to invest by the cost as the alternative is to leave the country as the dumping ground for foreign drugs manufacturing firm. She said: “In terms of drugs discoveries, that is another cup of tea. For you to discover drugs and vaccines is not bread and butter. Many times, researches have been going on for years. To produce one medicine, it can take us 10 to 15 years. Although, we now have processes that can reduce drug discovery time. “I do know that there are some people working hard on viruses, we have someone at the  Redeemers’ University. He is doing a lot on viruses, he was one of the people that detected Ebola virus at that time. So how is his laboratory set up, it is set up with foreign support, I don’t know whether he has any support from Nigeria but I do know that he had a lot of grants and collaborations from international organisations. “For us to discover these things, we need to empower such centres. Nigeria needs to inject money to ensure that scientists are working round the clock, testing different viruses so that if one comes up, we can easily detect it, to start with. “But we should go beyond detection, as a pharmaceutical scientist, when you study the genetics of a disease, when you study the properties of a particular disease or disease agent, we should use it and target medicines, molecules that can also kill it or cure it. “We should go beyond diagnoses, we should also empower centres to be able to discover, design and develop drugs. Although, these things take time. “It will cost about between one and two  billion dollars to develop one medicine, so, Nigeria needs to think seriously about this. “But they should find out more centres in different geopolitical zones and devote more resources. Some of these centres can be set up in both private and public institutions. “We have a lot of institutes, a lot MDAs in the country, we have Nigeria Institute for Pharmaceutical Research, we have Nigeria Institute for Medical Researches such centres should be empowered. “We should not wait until emergencies come, there should be readiness every time, we have the Nigeria Centre for  Disease Control(NCDC) that kind of centre should be empowered to tackle health emergencies. “Nigeria is not lacking in platforms to work, it is just empowerment and commitment by government and the private sector. We should show more commitment and we should spend more.”