LEAP Africa, a non-profit institution, has partnered with Union Bank to organise the 2020 Social Enterprise Sustainability Programme, designed to inspire, empower and equip a new cadre of African leaders by providing the skills and tools for personal, organisational and community transformation. Over the last seven years, LEAP Africa has been responsible for empowering and equipping young social change makers in Nigeria through the Social Innovators Programme (SIP) which is an annual fellowship that identifies, develops and supports young Nigerians who are creating social change in different communities with their social ventures or enterprises. Speaking at the workshop, Femi Taiwo, the Executive Director, LEAP Africa said: “Transformation is at the heart of what we do at LEAP Africa. We understand that we live in an increasingly innovative world, and for us to positively change the world, we need to collectively put our ideas and innovations together to solve our social problems. Hence, social innovation is a way to improve the world by providing creative solutions to social problems. “LEAP Africa’s Social Innovators Programme is an accelerator fellowship that empowers young change makers to deliver more impact and build sustainable social enterprises. All over the world, young people are at the forefront of innovation. Empowering them with requisite skills will collectively affect the future of Africa and change the narratives.” Every year, LEAP Africa inducts a new set of 20 young Nigerians into the Social Innovators Programme. This new set of fellows are young people who have established social enterprises that have been running for not less than 12 months in Nigeria. They are selected from various fields ranging from technology, education, health, humanity, energy, environment and agricultural sector. Commenting on the collaboration with LEAP Africa, Head, Corporate Communications & Marketing, Union Bank, Ogochukwu Ekezie-Ekaidem said: “Union Bank is committed to championing the sustainability conversation, and we are happy to support young Nigerians who are driving positive change in Africa. Our partnership with LEAP Africa on the Social Innovators Programme is one way to elevate our efforts in this area.” During the Enterprise Sustainability Workshop, which is the first level of engagement in the Social Innovators Programme, LEAP will bring together top level professionals from different fields to train, coach and mentor these fellows in a week-long training. 