Sir: The recent killings by the Boko Haram elements must be visited with organization, intelligence, strategy, professionalism and determined approach by President Muhammadu Buhari and the security chiefs, if they mean resolving this menace once and for all. Thousands of Nigerians have been killed by the sect, Muslims, Christians, men, women, young and old; there is no sense in searching where the killing has recorded its highest casualty, whether among the Christian or Islamic community? For heaven’s sake, they are Nigerians! What Nigerians want is the solution to these killings that is about pulling Nigeria and Nigerians apart. Some days ago, the Sultan of Sokoto cried against the killings and called on the government to move fast at arresting the situation. These boys are not killing for religion; they are not killing for tribe; for truly, no God sent them to kill. These boys are simply criminals and they must be treated as such. Several leaders have shown concern, worry and proffered solution to this lingering crisis at our hands. They have called on President Muhammadu Buhari to rejig his security chiefs, re-strategize, search for assistance wherever it is to resolve this issue as his primary responsibility to the people is to secure their lives and properties. This continued propaganda by the Presidency spokespersons and military that Boko Haram has been technically defeated is a hogwash. How can Boko Haram be technically defeated and there are several attacks, killings, abductions happening daily? Again, the argument by the government always that this group has been defeated and territories recovered from them is far from the truth. These men are very much on ground and running things. Innocent Nigerians are killed daily by this group. The Boko Haram sect are organized group of terrorists, they are heavily equipped with weapons, combat and intelligence strategies, well enumerated, and no doubt there could be some sponsors backing them up. It is evidently clear that our security chiefs are not telling Mr. President the whole truth about this war. As at the last check, trillions of naira have been invested into this war with no headway. There is no doubt that, our past leaders, mainly the military chiefs would come in handy in dealing with this crisis. They have great wealth of experience and international contacts that could be very relevant in tackling this problem. President Buhari can rub minds with them, tap from their wealth of experience and professionalism. It is also important here for the intelligence units of the security agencies to, by now be working in unison to be able to break into the camps of these unrepentant Islamic militants. Certainly, to me that is where to start from, if they have not. Businesses have had to shut down in most parts of Borno and Yobe states, people relocated to other parts of the country for safety of their lives. Some parents too have relocated their children’s education to other states. This evil must be tackled to allow development thrive in these places and indeed Nigeria. This is not an issue to politicize at all; rather, it calls for our leaders to work assiduously at taming these insurgents with immediate effect and alacrity. Nigeria is now regarded as a terrorist nation and included in the list of countries to be avoided by tourists and business men. Nigeria now witnesses poor economic growth and development as a result of this worsening security situation. Money that ought to be channeled into infrastructures, job creation, economy, and other development areas are now invested in tackling the unending war.