By AbdulGafar Alabelewe, Kaduna  Some gunmen on Friday night invaded the residence of former Vice Chancellor of the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) Zaria, Prof. Abdullahi Mustapha and kidnapped his 35-year-old daughter who is a mother of three. The gunmen, it was gathered invaded the residence located at Hayin Malam Jama’a in Sabon Gari LGA, of Zaria city at about 11:30pm. It was learnt that before they could gain access to the residence, the security guard on duty was shot and after that headed straight to the former Vice chancellor’s apartment. A source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told our correspondent that the armed men forced out occupants of the house, including the daughter who was on a visit from Lagos. The source added that the gunmen wielded sophisticated weapons, describing the entire situation as “terrifying.” He said there was resistance and shootings all over the place and in the process one of the bandits was killed. “In fact we suspected that they must have an informant who must have conducted a survey of the area,” he said. He said the bandits, who made away with the Professor’s daughter, had yet to call to place their demands while appealing to the government to beef up security in the area. The source said: “The gunmen invaded the former VC’s residence in a commando style and headed straight to the Prof’s apartment. “They (gunmen) ordered one of the security guards on duty to lead them to Professor’s room. The security man attempted to run and he was shot. “But they eventually had their way inside the house where they forced occupants, including the daughter who came from Lagos on a visit. “The bandits are yet to call to make demand since the incident on Friday night.” Kaduna State police Command on Sunday confirmed the incident. The Command’s Public Relations Officer, DSP Yakubu Sabo, said the operatives of the command on getting the distressed call on the incident, moved into action and neutralised one of the bandits. He said the security guard shot at the professor’s residence was responding to treatment at the Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital, Shika in Zaria where he was rushed to. Sabo also said one AK47 magazine loaded with twenty four (24) live Ammunition and a techno handset were recovered from the body of bandit while Seven (7) empty shells of AK47 ammunition were recovered at the scene of the incident. The police spokesman, said in a statement : “On 07/02/2020 at about 2340hrs, the Command received a distress call through DPO Samaru Division Zaria that, some unknown Armed Men entered the residence of Professor Abdullahi Mustapha former Vice Chancellor of Ahmadu Bello University Zaria, shot and injured one Zayyanu Abdullahi a security man and took away Maryam Abdullahi Mustapha a 35 year old daughter of the Professor. “On receipt of the information, teams of Policemen were promptly mobilized to the scene, engaged the hoodlums in a serious gun duel and successfully neutralized one of the bandits who died on the spot and several of the attackers escaped with gun injuries. Exhibits recovered on the body of the neutralized bandit includes an AK47 Magazine loaded with twenty four (24) live Ammunition and a techno handset while Seven (7) empty shells of AK47 ammunition were recovered at the scene of the incident. “However, the bandits succeeded in running away with the victim in the heat of the gun battle. “The injured security man is currently receiving treatment at ABU Teaching Hospital Zaria and is responding positively, while efforts are on top gear to rescue the victim and apprehend the perpetrators with a view to bringing them to book. “The Command assures the Public that, it is doing everything possible to ensure that the victim is rescued unharmed and appeals to the general public to support the Command with useful information that could help overcome the present security challenges.”