OGUN State Deputy Governor Noimot Salako-Oyedele has called for efforts to fight cancer scourge. She urged men and women to embrace regular examination for early detection. Salako-Oyedele, who spoke at the lauch of the 2020 World Cancer Day with the theme: “ I am and I will’’, held at the State Hospital, Ijaye, said periodic examinations and early detection would help reduce the scourge. “With regular examinations, a patient will survive cancer and live for many years afterwards and be cancer free. This is why early diagnosis of the disease is important,“ she said. The deputy Governor identified three main deadly cancers to include: breast, cervical and prostate, saying it was important to do self-examination to identify any changes in the body and sought immediate treatment in case of any detection. “It is important to know that Cancer is not a curse, or a sin, anybody could get it, whether you are prayerful or not, but early detection and getting it treated is the way out”. “His Excellency Prince Dapo Abiodun is very concerned and passionate about the welfare of the people of the State, that is why he has put in place an aggressive health agenda, right from primary health care to tertiary facilities, to ensure people have access to them”, she stated. In her remark, the State Commissioner for Health, Dr. Tomi Coker, also urged the people to do regular self-examination and ensure the children were immunised to guide against cervical cancer, adding that free screening were available across the State for all to take advantage of. Earlier in his welcome address, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Health, Dr. Nafiu Aigoro noted, World Cancer Day is an international day set aside every February 4, to further raise cancer awareness and encourage its prevention, detection, and treatment. In his goodwill message, the representative of Nigeria Medical Association, Dr. Olufemi Odusote, said cancer was the second killer disease in the world, noting that with early detection, the scourge can be reduced. In his presentation, the guest lecturer and Consultant Oncologist, Federal Medical Centre Dr. Babatunde Alabi said World Cancer Day was led by the Union for International Cancer Control to support the goals of the World Cancer Declaration, written in 2008. Shedding light on the scourge, Dr. Alabi noted that the day was being set aside to raise awareness globally, identify ways to combat it, as well as, highlighting the essence of screening as the best preventive measure.