By  Editorial  The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has decided to migrate from burning 100 tonnes (about 10,000 kilograms) of naira notes weekly, to recycling, in order to make destruction of ragged notes more friendly to the environment. The apex bank has therefore called for Request for Proposals (RFP) from companies with capability to meet this need. Obviously, the number of naira notes in the continent’s largest economy of 200 million people ought to produce concern about proper disposal of over-grazed paper and polymer notes. It is significant that the CBN has identified the need for other means of destroying huge volumes of currency notes that are too worn-out to be exchanged. That Nigeria burns 100 tonnes of naira in a week ought to be concerning and it is apt that the bank is galvanising efforts to look for a more environmentally friendly way than weekly incineration, with attendant problems for the environment and public health. In a society with over 10 million illiterates, it is not surprising that migration to cashless economy is too slow for the size of the population, especially the illiterate people with difficulty to rely on electronic transfers. Even in urban areas, many illiterate traders are unable to use mobile phones to transfer funds. Given that the use of coins has been discontinued, paper and polymer notes that accumulate cannot but be huge. The handling of the naira by the average person, especially traders, artisans, beggars is also a factor in the high rate of mutilation of the naira notes. More access to education and exposure to proper handling of paper money, especially in the informal sector and at parties where naira notes are thrown on unpaved dusty floors, is bound to extend the shelf-life of the naira and reduce high rate of deterioration.  However, it is puzzling that the bank had burnt huge volumes of paper money for this long, without making use of the waste to create value. In other countries, waste from burning or recycling of paper money is used to create compost for farmers or produce energy for communities. So can the polymer naira series be turned into energy. The bank should also take advantage of this possibility. We urge the CBN to source for experienced companies with good reputation for this sensitive task, because transparency is essential for a job that has temptations for moral weaklings, especially in a place where over N8bn  meant for burning disappeared into the pockets of bank officials entrusted with such assignments. There must be fool-proof monitoring of recycling of mutilated notes to prevent money meant for recycling from reappearing in the informal economy as happened in Osun State recently. The other challenge is that Nigeria, like many other countries in the age of digital technology, needs to encourage more people to go cashless so that less need for cash can be the default for payment for goods and services across the country. While waiting for reliable and regular electricity supply and more access to education by citizens currently excluded from public education, plans to upgrade the country’s informal sector and prepare traders and artisans to migrate from cash carrying to a cashless economy should form part of the new strategy at the apex bank.