Sometimes ago, I told a driver who has been driving for over 15 years to tell me the differences between a Y – Junction, T – Junction, Cross Junction and Staggered Junction with explanations on their implications to drivers. The single sentence he gave as an answer was that “Junction is a Junction no matter the shape and that drivers on the minor road should give way to the vehicle on the major road. What all classes of drivers, private or commercial must know and practise about Junctions is far more than the answer I got from the driver I interviewed. Drivers must be conscious of the shape and direction of the Junction. For example, ask yourself if the Junction is a Slip Junction or Merging Junction. It is a slip Junction if you are moving from a minor road to join a major road. By design, a short slip lane must be constructed by the side of the Y Junction. The vehicle must not move straight into the major lane but first move into the slip lane at a low speed, carry out the MSM/PSL routine and then move into the extreme right lane when it is safe to do so. Every Y – Junction must also have a Chevron marking (in white) which vehicles must not cross ( tyres of vehicles must not touch the markings). This is to enhance safe slipping and merging at Y junctions.  The Abuja – Airport and the Berger – Zuba roads were well constructed with these provisions in place but research reports revealed that over 80 per cent of drivers don’t know what they stand for. The merging Y Junction is the one that moves from a major road into a minor road. The driver must slow down, follow the MSM/PSL routine and merge into the minor lane when it is safe to do so. By design, a short turn lane is supposed to be constructed near T- junction. This is the space where vehicles that want to turn into the T – Junction will move into before turning into the T – Junction when it is safe to do so. This when done, will prevent a build up of traffic by vehicles intending to turn into a T – Junction. Sometimes ago, I stood near a T – Junction at Utako near Jabi Motor park to count the number of drivers that will make use of the turn lane but to my amazement, only one out of 23 cars made use of the turn lane before turning into the T – Junction. This is one of the causes of traffic gridlock and accidents. The size of a vehicle also has a lot to do with manoeuvering at a Junction. Drivers must be conscious of taking the right decisions at road junctions. It is wrong to drive into a situation where you cannot see a clear path through. As you are approaching any type of Junction, always follow the MSM/PSL routine. Position your vehicle correctly and safely without obstructing other vehicles. See the big picture in your observation and be accurate in your judgement as you approach the Junction. Where available, do obey the traffic lights and traffic control officers at  junctions. Understand and follow the turn – on – red traffic light where available at  junctions. Strictly adhere to the stipulated and commonsense speed limit at junctions. Always apply the defensive and super defensive driving techniques at junctions to prevent crashes. Federal and State government must ensure the installation of traffic signs at junctions where necessary and correct traffic signs with road markings at junctions in all city and interstate roads. The use of CCTV Camera and allied technology should be added to the traffic light to complement enforcement and prosecution of road traffic offenders. Road safety is a joint responsibility. All road users and policy makers must always take appropriate steps to prevent the loss of lives and properties on Nigeria roads.  