MORE Nigerians have joined the ranks of lucky winners in the on-going Globacom  Recharge and Win Big promo as they  thronged the popular Lagos commodities market popularly called “Mile 12”. The winners caused a stir as they took away their prizes in buses, cars and trucks to their respective destinations. This time round, 10 Nigerians won tricycles, 20 won industrial sewing machines, 20 won grinding machines while 40 Nigerians went home with power generating sets. The winners were picked at a draw held in Lagos the previous week.  Officials of the National Lottery Regulatory Commission (NLRC)  supervised the draws and were also physically present at the prize presentation ceremony.. The joy of the winners knew no bounds as they fielded questions from journalists and bantered with friends, relativesand well wishers. 76 year-old Reverend Mother Omolara Esther Orairu, JP who won an Industrial Sewing Machine enthused: “I am so happy. I was not convinced when I was first called because I was saying what was I owing Glo that they were calling me. But later I was asked to go to the nearest Glo office to verify. I will give the sewing machine to my grandchildren. Two of them are learning fashion designing. God will continue to bless Globacom”. Another sewing machine winner, 53-year old trader, Mrs Olusola Ogunsakin waxed religious when she said “this sewing machine is a sign that God has not forgotten me. To be picked out of millions of subscribers is a great favour. When I was informed that I had won, I danced in my room. I will pray everyday for Glo. The company will continually go up and never, never come down. I am very, very happy. I will give the industrial sewing machine I won to my daughter who is a tailor”. For an applicant, Mrs Hannah Onoiza Musa who won Keke Napep, the promo ignited a ray of hope for making ends meet as she declared she would use the Keke for business. This was also the take of 27-year-old Mr. Gaga Jerome Tersoo, a generator winner who submitted: “I feel so excited. I feel cool. I will use the generator to support my business as I run a provision shop”. The unique nature of the Recharge and Win Big promo whereby subscribers who recharged are randomly picked electronically without the subscriber applying makes it more intriguing as winners were pleasantly surprised when informed that they had won. A Police Officer, Inspector Godiya Ahmadu, who won a generator played the role of Thomas the doubter when he was informed by Customer Care representatives that he had won. His comments: “I am a Police Officer. When I was called, I did not believe it because I did not play any raffle draw. I went to Glo office at Allen Avenue and it was confirmed that I won a generator. I said how come? God will bless Glo well, well because if I am to buy this generator now by myself, where would I get the money? It’s only God who will reward Globacom”. Another generator winner, Mr. Kazeem Oluwasegun Ogunderu, from Iperu Remo who lives in Isolo said “I thank Glo for this generator. I will use the generator to do charging business. God will continue to bless Glo”. In the same vein, providence smiled on Mr. Aluko Isiaka, a 40-year-old driver who lost his number when his phone was stolen in a one chance bus. On recovering his line, he was called that he had won a generator and he was pleasantly surprised, adding “I will give the generator to my wife to support her business. Similarly, a keke rider in Agungi area of Lagos, 27-year-old Ekemini Edet Moses was full of joy as he collected the Keke he won in the promo. He said “now God has provided my own for me. My Own Don Beta o with Glo! I say a very big thank you to Glo. I pray God will continue to empower Glo to do more”. An undergraduate with Babcock University, Ilishan, Ogun State, David Udemezue, a 300 level Bio Chemistry student chaperoned by his mother who stormed the market to collect his Keke Napep had this to say: “I initially felt it was a scam so I did not pick when they were calling me. Wow, this is so real! I thank Glo. I will use the Keke for business in my area at Ago Palace way, Lagos, and make some money to support myself in school”, while 24 year old Ochanu Sunday, another keke winner who makes pizza for a living disclosed that the keke will bring another stream of income to him. 52 year old, Mr. Freeborn Orokota, a Vulcanizer at the Mile 12 market, Lagos was also fortunate to have won a keke in the promo. Shouting “my own don beta” at the top of his voice he said,” I will drive the Keke myself to make money. I thank Glo for removing me from poverty. With this Keke, I know for sure that my own don beta. God will continue to bless Glo, the company will never fold up! Amen!”. Beautiful Miss Folayemi Yahaya who also won Keke Napep got to the prize presentation ceremony late but  regaled everybody with the fact that her status had changed with the keke. The 32 year old worker with a freight and logistics company wasted no time in ferrying her keke in a company bus she brought to the ceremony. She said she initially thought it was a scam because of the activities of scammers adding that she had been a Glo subscriber for over 13 years. In the case of Pastor Bertram Onwuegbule who won a grinding machine, the promo would afford him the opportunity to assist his brother’s wife and fulfil the biblical injunction of being ones brother’s keeper and ditto for 42 year old Mr. Femi Salami Jimoh who won a sewing machine which he said he would give to his brother who is currently learning how to sew. Miss Okelola Monisola, 29, who won a grinding machine also said she would give the machine to her aunt. Correspondingly, a yam seller at the Mile 12 market, Adzun Godwin, a graduate of mass communications from the Benue State University who won an industrial sewing machine thanked Globacom for the empowerment. He disclosed that he had been involved in the business of selling yams for over ten years and actually funded his own education and that of his siblings. Validating the presentation, Mrs Nkiru Onuzulu, Deputy Director, National Lottery and Regulatory Commission, Lagos expressed satisfaction with the ceremony, adding “having been present at the launch of the promo in October, I can confirm that Globacom has kept to the terms of the promo. We have attended every draw and presentation event and are satisfied with the transparency. The promo has the ability to create entrepreneurs because of the kind of prizes being given out. These are items that will enable the winners to set up their own businesses”. Also speaking, the Iyaloja of Owode Market, Alhaja Falilat Adekoya, thanked Globacom for organising such a life-transforming promotion.  She declared, “Glo Recharge and Win Big is a very good programme that is helping people to fight poverty. It is a massive war on want. God will continue to support Glo. This kind of programme should be continued. I want to plead with Glo to make it an annual programme because it is helping a lot of people”. In all, the  Glo Recharge and Win Big promo has clearly added value to the lives of Globacom subscribers who have benefited from its prizes. It has palpably and graphically demonstrated the company’s love and care for its subscribers,  particularly those at the base of societal pyramid. 