 Gunsel has completed its working prototype of Model B9. It was the first automotive company in the Mediterranean to unveil its Electric Vehicle design in 2016. There were 109 engineers and R&D team that took part in the project. Among them were three Nigerians living abroad. In total, they spent 1.2 million man-hours on building the prototype, which has been presented to the public. With a composite body made from carbon fiber, zero-emission, and noiseless drive experience, Gunsel B9 attains full charge capacity in 30 minutes, can travel up to 350km on a single full charge and reaches 100km/h in eight seconds. Report has it that the three Nigerian engineers, two of who are mechanical engineers and a software engineer were in pursuit of their graduate degree in the Turkish Republic before joining the Gunsel team. Their details are Sodrudeen Mustapha (MSc graduate of Software Engineering), McDominc Eze (Ph.D. candidate of Mechanical Engineering), and Adebanji Adewunmi (MSc graduate of Mechanical Engineering) from Kwara State, Imo State and Lagos State. They just got their names engraved in the history of electric vehicle production while studying at the Near East University when they got involved in the project. It would be recalled that among people making Nigeria proud in the automotive industry is the acclaimed world’s best car designer Jelani Aliyu, a United States-based Nigerian automotive designer, who designed General Motors’ leading auto brand, Chevrolet Volt. Innoson Vehicle Manufacturing is fast becoming a household name and also the Jos-based Jerry Isaac Mallo of Bennie Technologies Limited, who recently unveiled the country’s first locally manufactured carbon fiber sports car. Just last week, American social commentator Carol Angela Davis @carolangelad gave her opinion about Nigerians in the diaspora, saying they stand for excellence. According to the United States census bureau, four percent of Nigerians in the US hold a Ph.D., which is compared to one per cent of the US population, 17 percent of Nigerians hold a master’s  and 37 per cent have a bachelor’s. Nigerians are said to be the most educated ethnic group in the US.