Dear Reader, Peace and blessings in Jesus name.  This month, I shall be teaching on, A Great Start. Thank God for the privilege given you and I to witness a new month, this goes to prove that God is done with you and that He has great plans for you. However, you must position yourself to receive all that He has in store for you. As someone rightly said “The future belongs to those who prepared for it today” I want you to know that there is a need to start right in order to achieve that wonderful life and family you hope to see this year.  The Bible says, I therefore so run, not as uncertainly; so fight I, not as one that beateth the air (1 Corinthians 9:26). One great way to start the year is by committing to personal development.  What is personal development? To develop means to go through a process of growth.  It means to consistently up-grade your life by moving towards a more advanced and organised state. You must understand that it is foolishness to do the same thing, hoping for a different result. That is not you in Jesus name. Therefore, development is not a point you arrive at, but a process. You must keep working at consistently upgrading and improving the quality of your life and family.  Development involves the organisation. Many are very disorganized in their approach to life which makes them do the wrong things at the wrong time. If you will commit to organizing yourself and family properly this first month of the year 2020, you can rest assured that you have embarked on a great start that will help you all through the year and ensure that you finish well. Do you know that many families are frustrated by the day, not because there is a ‘devil’ somewhere oppressing them, but because they have refused to take steps towards their personal development? All they do is sit down and blame everything and everyone for their stagnation. It is important for every member of the family to be focused on personal development. The bible says Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven (Mathew 5:14-16). If you must stand out as a city on the hill, you must be given to continuous skill and personal development. The year 2020 is another opportunity that you can lay hold on to make the most of. You must clearly understand that your future and that of your family is not in the hands of any man, so do not toy with it, so as not to weep at the end of the year.   Take it as your responsibility to develop yourself and family. It is a personal, non-transferable responsibility! According to a popular saying, “The largest room in the world is the room for improvement” This is because no matter where you are or the state in which your family is at the moment, the truth is; there is always a better way of doing what you are doing now. However, you must understand that development requires labour. Paul in I Corinthians 15:10 says, But by the grace of God I am what I am: and his grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain; but I laboured more abundantly than they all: yet not I, but the grace of God which was with me. Clearly, grace only answers to those who labour! Paul was a beneficiary of the grace of God, yet he did not go to sleep with it; rather, he laboured. The question is, what are you doing with the grace of God upon your life? You have a part in making it produce results in your life. Personal development is a non-transferable responsibility. the sooner you accept the challenge and have a more productive life, the better. Many people will prefer to run to their pastors for a quick fix rather than to labour in the Word of God to get solutions to their challenges. This is not to say running to your pastor is wrong, but you must understand that you are the principal actor in the matter of your destiny. When you accept responsibility for the events of your life and family, God releases His grace upon you. Let me show you three reasons among others why personal development is vital. A great start only begins with Jesus in your life. If you are not yet born again and you desire to do so right now, please pray this prayer with faith in your heart: Dear Lord Jesus Christ, I come to You today. I am a sinner. Forgive me my sins and cleanse me with Your Blood. I accept You as my Lord and personal Saviour. Make me a child of God today. Thank You for delivering me from sin and satan to serve the living God and thank You for accepting me into Your Kingdom. Congratulations! If you prayed this simple prayer of faith with me, you are now born again and a child of God. He loves you and will never leave you. Read your Bible daily, obey God’s Word and seek Christian fellowship (John 14:21). With this, you are guaranteed all-round rest and peace in Jesus’ Name! Call or write to share your testimonies with me through oyedepofaitha@gmail.com, 07026385437 OR 08141320204. For more insight, these books authored by me are available at the Dominion Bookstores in all Living Faith Churches and other leading Christian bookstores: Make your Life Count, Marriage Covenant, Making Marriage Work, Building a Successful Home and Success in Marriage (Co-Authored).