The Lagos State government has rolled out some palliative measures to cushion the effect of the ban on commercial motorcycles and tricycles in six councils of the state. The restriction kicked off on Saturday, with the government saying it achieved “over 90% compliance”. “The level of compliance was over 90 %,” Commissioner of Information and Strategy Mr Gbenga Omotoso said in a statement. “The high level of compliance has shown that Lagosians agree with the government on the need to stop the danger that commercial motorcycles and tricycles have become – a big threat to safety of lives and security of our people. “The little discomfort experienced by commuters on some routes due to the absence of motorcycles and tricycles is noted. This will not last as alternatives are being rolled out. “A fleet of 65 buses will join the others on some major routes as from Monday, February 3, 2020. “550 more buses are being expected. “Besides, 14 ferries will be commissioned on Tuesday. This will further open up the waterways, reduce travel time on various routes and provide safe, dependable and comfortable alternatives for commuters. According to the police, a total of 188 motorcycles and 78 tricycles were impounded in different parts of the state. Police Commissioner Hakeem Odumosu had in line with the state government’s announcement, deployed Divisional Police Officers (DPOs), State Traffic Officers (STOs), Area Traffic Officers (ATOs), Divisional Traffic Officers (DTOs), Lagos State Taskforce on Environmental Sanitation and Special Offences and other police officers across the state command to enforce the ban. “Consequently, 40 violators were arrested in different parts of the state. 188 motorcycles and 78 tricycles were impounded. The Commissioner of Police (CP) went round the state to monitor compliance. The CP expressed satisfaction with the level of compliance across the state and thanked the good people of Lagos State for their cooperation. “The CP personally arrested some motorcycle and tricycle operators seen contravening the traffic laws. Others arrested by the CP are VIP escort vehicles without registration numbers, vehicles with defaced or covered plate numbers and vehicles driving against traffic. “Twenty two vehicles were impounded. The CP reiterated the fact that no one is above the law. He called on Lagosians irrespective of their social status to support the police in their quest to provide a safe and secure state for everyone to live in and carry out their lawful businesses. “The enforcement is a continuous exercise and violators will be dealt with in line with extant laws on traffic,” said police spokesman Bala Elkana