Okodili Ndidi, Abuja The  (AFRIGIST) has advocated the use of Geospatial technology in the execution of projects in Nigeria and other African countries.
It disclosed that it has initiated a programme that will provide Nigeria and other African countries the capacity to meet the geospatial need. AFRIGIST formerly known as Regional Centre for Training in Aerospace Surveys (RECTAS) was established in 1972 under the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa (UNECA), is supervised by the Office of the Surveyor General of the Federation (SGOF). The institute, which is located in the campus of Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile- Ife, is a bilingual (English and French) inter-governmental educational outlet for the following member countries: Benin, Burkina – Faso, Cameroun, Ghana, Mali, Niger, and Nigeria the host country, and Senegal. It was created to develop skilled manpower needs in geospatial information science and technology and its application, is open to all African countries, providing theoretical and practical training in Photogrammetry, Remote-Sensing, Cartography and Geographic Information Science (GIS) including their application in geographical surveys, environmental studies, natural resources management, mapping, land administration among others. The Executive Dircetor of AFRIGIST, Dr. Adewale Akingbade, said that the benefits of Geospatial education is enormous, adding that Nigeria is yet to explore the opportunities in Geospatial technology. He enjoined the government and relevant authorities to encourage the acquisition of geospatial education in the country adding that it will end the unwholesome practice of executing projects without data and facts. Akingbade who made the call at the Palace of the Emir of Nasarawa, Alhaji Ibrahim Usman Jibrin, a former Minister for Environment, noted that “the benefits of Geospatial education remain enormous and Nigeria has not fully tapped into it”. The traditional ruler stated that the importance of GIS cannot be over-emphazed, adding that Nassarawa State has achieved a lot through the use of geospatial technology. He commended the Surveyor General of the Federation, Taiwo .Adeniran over his appointment and urged him to carry everyone along to achieve meaningful development.