The Yoruba socio-cultural organisation, Afenifere Renewal Group (ARG), has urged Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq to implement court judgments on the grading of Yoruba Obas. The group said: “Obas have been lawful and patriotic in their approach to demand their God-given, historically-sanctioned and culturally-approved rights. “We think that no social group, not the least government should stand against these inalienable rights any longer. People should stop playing ‘god’. ‘’Those who did yesterday are not here today and they certainly do not have a space in the history of progressives.” ARG hailed the governor for his pro-people posture. In a communique at the end of awards for illustrious members of ARG in Kwara State, the group said: “We are not surprised by these commendable reports from our people, noting that the governor is the standard bearer of the ‘O to ge’ political movement. We hope he continues on this trajectory to move the state from tokenism to fully institutionalised welfarist governance. We pray for God’s guidance for him.” The communique was signed by ARG National Chairman and National General Secretary Olawale Oshun and Ayo Afolabi The communique reads: “We demand from the Kwara state government equitable and egalitarian governance. It is sad that in an age where merit and innovation drive social progress, Kwara state still ties the progress of its citizens to ethno-religious affiliation. Many of our people testified to being denied the opportunity to maximise their potentials and reach the zenith of their careers simply because they are considered not loyal to the diktat of the Ilorin Emirate System. “The people voted for the government, not the Emirate and it is important that the instruments of governance are used exclusively to benefit the people and not for the use of feudal lords and their acolytes. “We call on media houses, human rights organisations, civil societies, and community based organisations to focus their attention on Kwara state. Flagrant abuses of human rights and rule of law are being perpetrated which do not serve any good cause known to human history. “Advise religious and traditional leaders – particularly the Islamic and Christian clerics – to use their positions to serve humanity. Religion is and must remain a vehicle for moving humanity towards piety but also progress. “Similarly, traditional institutions are and must remain socio-cultural structures that exist by virtue of the consensus of the people. Any religious practice or traditional structure that stands for oppression and regression cannot please the Almighty God nor serve humanity. “Commend Yoruba people of Kwara state who had chosen to identify with their ancestral heritage despite obvious victimisation. We call on all Yoruba people of Kwara State origin to support their Obas in their joint resolve to uplift Yoruba civilisation. “Call on all Yoruba people all over the world to extend support to their kith and kin in Kwara state. Although Nigeria professes to be a democratic, open and free society, the overriding testimony and palpable evidence from Kwara state is that they live under bondage and oppression. They are also not immune from the security breaches that afflict our country. This is an unacceptable reality in today’s world.” ARG enjoined “all stakeholders to ensure observance of democratic tenets, religious tolerance and peaceful co-existence in order to make this beautiful state achieve its potential”.