Continuous changes in business dynamics has necessitated the need for employers to prioritise training of workers for improved productivity, writes TOBA AGBOOLA.  According to experts, capacity building and development are part of major ways organisations invest in the workforce for greater immediate and future returns. Organisational effectiveness, experts said, rests on the efficient and effective performance of workforce that make up the organisation, while  efficient and effective performance of the workforce in turn, rest on the richness of the knowledge, skills and abilities of the workforce. According to experts, capacity building and development is one of the major ways an organisation invests in the workforce for greater return today and even in the foreseeable future. They said  continuous clamour for social change to make adaptability and continuous preparation of the workforce is inevitable as the initial acquisition of knowledge and skills is germane. President,  Association of Senior Staff of Banks, Insurance and Financial Institutions (ASSBIFI), Comrade Olasanoye Oyinkansola while calling for constant capacity building of entrepreneurs, said it will expose them to new ways of doing things, which, would in the long run, improve their products and brand. She said currently, there is a great deal of pressure at work, especially in the banking and finance industry, some of which challenge the very core of banking business. The emergence of digital technology, according to her, has been the major disruptor that defied business as usual and long-term strategic planning. She added that                                                                  digital revolution has brought about a new set of challenges and opportunities. While these technologies are taking away jobs, she said, they are creating new ones, calling for capacity building of bankers to leverage the opportunities provided by this development. She said  although there are many categories of training such as management training or sales training, employees with project management skills are an important asset to any organisation. Stating that training improves employees’ performance, she argued that the investment in training that a company makes shows employees that they are valued. Speaking with The Nation, Director-General, Nigeria Employers Consultative Association (NECA), Mr Timothy Olawale advised workers to engage in continuous self-development and urged employers to provide adequate training for workers if they want to survive the challenges posed by technology. He dismissed fears that technological advancement would lead to massive job loss, pointing out that workers should acquaint  themselves with technologies in order not to be caught unaware. He said: “What is critical is that as stakeholders, both employers and employees, have roles to play so that workers will continue to be relevant in the work environment. As this development unfolds, workers are supposed to take kin interest self- development. “You should not wait until your employer send you on course to update yourself  and be in tandem with latest technology or the digital era that has cropped up in the world of work. “While introducing new technology, employers also have responsibilities to ensure that they give existing workers the opportunity to be very relevant by giving them relevant training on the use of those technology,” he said. He said further that the body would enlighten its members on the their responsibility and safety of their workers. He said: “What is very fundamental is for us to enlighten employers, the government and workers to what their responsibilities are. This is what NECA has been doing over the years.‘’ National Union of Chemical Footwear Rubber Leather and Non Metallic Products Employees (NUCFRLANMPE), Comrade Goke Olatunji also called on companies to provide the platform to constantly train, not only their workforce, but unemployed youths so that they become employable.  ‘’If more people have the needed capacity to be employed and are later employed, while their employers open a pension account for them, he said, this will add to the customer base of the Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs),’’ he said. He stressed that one of the ways to develop the pension system is to provide jobs for the jobless youths, adding that the firm has taken the initiative to get more people into the workforce by educating them on how to prospect for jobs, which is a form of capacity building. “What we are doing is simply to find a way to assist individuals who are prospecting the job market. It is really a give back opportunity for us to advise, counsel and encourage them. If we want people to work, we must also assist them in getting jobs,” he said. A robust training and development programme, he said, ensures that employees have a consistent experience and background knowledge, addresses their weaknesses, increases productivity and adherence to quality standards, increases innovation in new strategies and products, reduces employee turnover and enhances company reputation and profile. He urged his colleagues in business to constantly invest in themselves and their employees through training and retraining  on the rudiments of credit administration so that Nigeria’s credit administrators can compete favourably with their counterparts globally. On his part, President, Association of Registered Insurance Agents of Nigeria (ARIAN), Mr. Ademola Ifagbayi said there is a serious need for insurance firms to train their agents and marketers, especially, now that the insurance industry is going retail. Agents, he said, have a critical role to play in the growth and development of the industry, noting that the marketing and sale of insurance products and services revolves round the agents. He said to change the negative perception of Nigerians towards insurance, the marketers of these products have to be trained on the dynamics and the latest tips of persuading the people to buy insurance policy. “Any insurance company that refused to train its marketers will die a natural death, in an era that business dynamics keeps changing every day. “Though, some underwriters may feel that if they train their agents, they might end up leaving them to work for another company, but it’s an investment worth doing. Companies must give attractive packages to agents in a bid to persuade agents to stay with them for a long time. “With that, there will be good return on their investment in these agents, while there would be value for money,” he pointed out.