 Coronavirus outbreak is “getting bigger,” the World Health Organisation (WHO) said on Friday, and warned that the virus could reach most “if not all countries.” Over 83000 cases have already been confirmed across 40 countries, up from 30 a week ago. The death toll has hit 2,857. WHO spokesman, Christian Lindmeier, told a Geneva news briefing that it was looking into reports of some people getting re-infected, which would include reviewing how tests were taken, adding: “But in general, a person who had coronavirus infection would be immune at least for a while.” Of the new coronavirus cases in the last 48 hours, 327 were reported in mainland China and 969 were reported in the rest of the world, including one in Nigeria. China’s Health Commission confirmed 44 new deaths from coronavirus yesterday, compared with 29 deaths the day earlier, bringing the total number of deaths on the mainland to 2,788. Forty-one of these deaths were in Hubei province, the epidemic’s epicenter. Also in the last 48 hours, 3,622 people in mainland China recovered from the virus, according to China’s National Health Commission. Hong Kong reported 93 new cases and two deaths. The German authorities quarantined about 1,000 people while Switzerland has banned large events, leading to the Geneva car show being canceled. Iran and South Korea revealed more coronavirus cases on Friday. Teheran reported 143 more infections while South Korea had  571. Mexico had its first preliminary positive test, while Australia, New Zealand, the Netherlands and Britain all reported new cases. U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson is expected to chair an emergency meeting next week. French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire said the Coronavirus outbreak could have a bigger impact on economic growth than previously expected. Le Maire had said last week he expected the virus to shave 0.1 percentage points off France’s 2020 GDP growth. “Now the epidemic has spread beyond China, this figure could obviously be higher depending on how the health situation changes,” he said. 