 The Katsina State governor, Alhaji Aminu Bello Masari, has prescribed education as the enduring remedy to the problem of banditry ravaging many states in the northern part of the country. Masari suggested the remedy on Monday when he received the federal government’s delegation, led by the Chief of Staff to the President, Malam Abba Kyari, which had paid the state a condolence visit on behalf of President Muhammadu Buhari. The President, in his message, delivered by his delegation, assured both the Katsina State Government, as well as the Emir of Katsina, Abdulmuminu Kabir Usman, that that his administration will do whatever it takes to rid the country of bandits, terrorists and criminals. President Buhari, according to a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, commiserated with government and people of Katsina, and also got a full brief on the security situation in the state, and the attack that claimed many lives in Batsari council area of the state at the weekend. He also commiserated with families of the 31 victims of the attack, praying that almighty God will comfort all of them and grant the departed rest. Speaking while receiving the delegation, the Katsina State governor, Masari, regretted that the latest incident had marred seven months of unbroken peace in the state, following measures put in place by his administration. Masari, who received the delegation shortly after his return from spots of the incident, said the only enduring remedy to banditry was provision of education, and he gave a strong assurance that education will continue to be a priority of the government. The governor appreciated the President for sending a strong delegation to condole with the state. The Emir of Katsina also thanked the President for sending the team to Katsina, urging the military and police to put more effort in tackling the menace. “We must go all out and spare no effort in tackling them. They are trying to destroy the country,’’ he added. At the meeting, the heads of security agencies, military and police, gave their situation reports to the delegation, adding that Nigerian Air Force fighter helicopters, with night vision capability, will support the ground operation against bandits. The Federal Government delegation included Minister of Defence, General Bashir Magashi (rtd), Minister of Police Affairs, Mohammed Maigari Dingyadi, Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika and Director General of National Intelligence Agency, Ambassador Ahmed Rufa’i Abubakar. Others on the delegation: Senior Special Assistants to the President, Household and Social Events, Malam Sarki Abba, and Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu. 