 It is disheartening our universities don’t give students the privilege to express their feelings and thoughts on issues: academic or non-academic. Universities are now like military zones where the commandant gives orders and the cadets obey without exploring its contents. It should be known to the university managements that universities play crucial role in the building of students’ consciousness, integrity of ideas and promotion of equal opportunities. Universities are created on the principles of independent thinking and academic freedom. However, these principles have almost been banished in our universities of today. These are values we need to defend, but the mind of students have been coated in the fear of rustication, should they be bold enough to express their feelings. Such expressions are often tagged: ‘hate speech’ or better still, a way of tarnishing the image of the varsity. If I may ask, what image does a university have when it ceases to allow her students  express their feelings and interest. Students are a major asset of a university. Once there are no students a university ceases to exist. In an ideal organisation, the university management sees students as a client/customer. Although, there are rules and regulations guiding every organisations; nonetheless, that doesn’t mean they should deprive their student the right to express their feelings, opinions and thoughts.  Mahatma Gandi says: “A customer is the most important visitor on our premises. He is not dependent on us. We are dependent on him. He is not an interruption on our work. He is the purpose of it. He is not an outsider of our business. He is part of it. We are not doing him a favour by serving him. He is doing us a favor by giving us an opportunity to do so.” Over the centuries, many in the academia have failed to uphold the right expression, radical and anti-establishment ideas and that’s the legacy that all universities have the responsibility to uphold. Our universities need to be role models displaying transparency, encouraging freedom of votes, upholding the individual’s right to express opposing and uncomfortable views. The importance of independent vote expression has never been more potentially under threat than it is currently. We need to have robust protection for the expressions on campuses be it academic and non-academic, and regardless of ethnicity, gender, religion and race. If we get it right and enable universities to translate their works into social and economic progress, treasuring freedom of vote, freedom of expression and social tolerance, then universities would be centred for human progress and quality of life. 400 Level