The Minister of Youths and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, has commended the zeal and commitment of the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led administration to the development of sports in Nigeria, assuring sports lovers across the country that Edo state will host the best sports festival ever in the history of Nigeria. The Minister, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Youths and Sports Development, Gabriel Aduda, said this during Edo 2020 Joint Main Organising Committee (MOC)/Local Organising Committee (LOC) meeting held in Benin City, the Edo State capital. Edo State will host athletes from across the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) for the National Sports Festival, scheduled to start March 22. Dare said the governor and his deputy’s commitment to deepening sports development in the country is made manifest in the administration’s investment to the revamp of the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium and other sporting facilities in the state. He said, “We acknowledge the commitment of Governor Godwin Obaseki and his Deputy, Philip Shaibu to this cause. From the discussions we had in Abuja, you see that they are committed to making this work. They are committed to sports development not only in Edo State but the entire federation. “The 20th National Sports Festival is expected to be the best that has ever been heard in the history of this country. We have before us a very heavy task; it’s not by any means a small feat. We have a lot of work to do in preparation to National Sports Festival, tagged, ‘Edo 2020’”. The minister continued, “But one beautiful thing about it is that we are certain that this is not an impossible task. All it will require from us as the MOC and the LOC is that we join hands together giving our best and make this work. “What we are here to do is to bring the passion and commitment that has been displayed by our leaders, and not only that but to also bring to bear the faith that Nigerian people have put in us.” In his remarks, state secretary of the LOC, Emmanuel Egbinosa, reassured that the state was ready to host athletes and sports lovers from across the country, noting that all facilities for the national event would be ready before the commencement of the games.