The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) Director-General, Dr. Dakuku Peterside, has launched the Maritime Action Plan on Marine Litter and Plastic Management to help the agency rid the waters of unwanted materials, which can cause food insecurity, environmental degradation and impede safety of navigation on the territorial waters. OLUWAKEMI DAUDA reports. MIFFED by the problems caused by plastic waste, Director-General, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Dakuku Peterside, has launched the Maritime Action Plan on Marine Litter and Plastic Management in Lagos to rid the waters of unwanted materials. Peterside charged Nigerians on the use of ocean resources, adding that so many activities depend on the ocean. He said: “It is a known fact that our oceans and seas sustain lives but when the threats to ocean health are numerous, it also affects human beings. The state of health of the ocean is related to the state of our health and our economy. Therefore, we must stop the indiscriminate dumping of materials in our ocean. “The issue of marine litter and plastics in the seas and oceans has remained a global concern, particularly, following the increased awareness about blue economy and its derivable benefits. The  challenges  of  marine  litter  and  plastic pollution  are  multiple, and include  threat  to  food security, threat  to  economic  activities,  navigational  hazard,  water safety,  threat  to  ecosystem, harmful effects on marine life and bio-diversity, among others. Projection by World Economic Forum (WEF) A report by the World Economic Forum (WEF) projects that by 2050, plastics in the oceans will outweigh fish, if mitigated. Of 260 million tons of plastic produced in the world yearly, about 10 per cent  ends up in the ocean and 70 per cent of the mass eventually sinks, damaging life on the seabed. Nigeria’s marine waste Also, the International Solid Waste Association (ISWA) in a study says 83 per cent of the 4.8–12.7 million tons of land-based plastic waste that ends up in the ocean from the 192 coastal countries originate from 20 countries, including Nigeria.  A study by Africa Impact Sustainable Initiative also reports that 500 shipping containers of waste is dumped in Africa monthly. In 2010, the yearly mismanaged plastic waste for the continent was put at about 4.8 million tonnes and could reach 11.5 million tonnes in 2025. These occurrences are not evident globally or continentally, but also in Nigeria, which is among top 20 nations that contribute 83 per cent of total volume of land based plastic waste that end up in the oceans/seas. It is estimated that over 200,000 metric tonnes of plastic waste from land-based sources in Nigeria, is discharged into the Atlantic Ocean yearly. Report from VOA on solid waste A recent report last September by the Voice of America (VOA) also shows that Nigeria generates an estimated 32 million tons of solid wasteyearly, one of the highest in Africa. Of that figure, plastic constitutes 2.5 million tons. This poses a great danger to the environment and particularly our marine ecosystem. Many coastal communities in Nigeria have no official waste collection service, meaning that there is nowhere for litter to go. Regrettably, most of the waste generated in these communities ends up in the seas and oceans. Implications of plastic waste to the economy  Peterside said the mplications for the economy are enormous. “The presence of Marine Litter and Plastics in our waters is impacting negatively on the drive to make Nigeria a greener, safer and healthier nation. We all know that solutions to this global challenge are multiple and require consideration of a systematic approach to the various sources generating the pollution, both land and sea-based contributors, and a combination of intervention in different sectors and at different levels. For those within the maritime sector, we are faced with greater threat hence the development of the relevant IMO instruments, which includes the MARPOL-Annex V, London Convention and its Protocol as well as the Nigerian Merchant Shipping Act 2007. This global effort are tackling marine litter and waste dumped into the sea and oceans aligns with the objectives of the UN Sustainable Development Goals 6, 11, 12,14, and 17,” he said. Recognising that NIMASA has a responsibility of ensuring that Nigeria has clean seas and oceans, the agency decided to take action in partnership with others to combat the menace of marine litter and plastics. The result of that effort is the Maritime Action Plan on Marine  litters and Plastics, which NIMASA  presented in Lagos, a few days ago. ‘Why the move by NIMASA on plastic waste is important?’ The discussions on marine litter, as championed by NIMASA, stakeholders said, are essential because oceans, seas and rivers are the lifeblood of humanity, but they are being turned into rubbish dumps. A maritime lawyer, Mr  Segun Adesoji, said Nigerians should support NIMASA to clean the waters, and to act now. “What NIMASA intends to do with its campaign against marine litter is to turn the tide on plastic and other  waste, protect biodiversity and keep the oceans rich and clean. It is an investment in our own survival, the survival of our children and the future generations and our nation,” he said What is marine litter? Marine litter has been defined by the United Nations as “any persistent, manufactured or processed solid material discarded, disposed of or abandoned in the marine and coastal environment. Marine litter consists of items that have been made or used by people and deliberately discarded into the sea or rivers or on beaches; brought indirectly to the sea with rivers, sewage, storm water or winds; accidentally lost, including material lost at sea in bad weather (fishing gear, cargo); or deliberately left by people on beaches and shores’’. According to Adesoji, ”Marine litter is found on the beaches and shores, on the water surface, in the water column and on the seabed. It can be found near the source of input but also can be transported over a long distances with sea currents and winds.” The maritime lawyer said there was a need to support NIMASA in preserving the waters and seas as it holds a lot of opportunities in developing the economy and providing jobs for the people. “We are in support of the latest move by NIMASA to find effective solutions and required actions to improve litter prevention, recycling, and other waste management infrastructure, along with strong national, regional and international partnerships,” Alaka said. What causes marine waste? Ocean pollution is not a problem limited to one country, or even continent. But it has become clear that what happens in one city can have impacts across the globe. According to the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), about 80 per cent of marine litter originates on land. A majority of scientific studies have concluded that plastic in the ocean is the result of poor or insufficient waste management and lack of sufficient recycling and recovery. UNEP identified these sources as the most important: Poorly managed or poorly resourced landfill sites; sewage treatment and combined sewer overflows; people using beaches for recreation or shore fishing; manufacturing sites, plastic processing, and transport; shore-based solid-waste disposal and processing facilities; inadequately covered waste containers and waste-container vehicles; inappropriate or illegal dumping of domestic and industrial trash or wast; street litter that is washed by rain or snowmelt, or blown by wind into waterways. Types of marine waste There are many types of marine litter. About 70 per cent of marine litter, such as glass, metal, and various  marine equipment and other refuse sink to the ocean floor. Debris and pollution do not belong in the ocean and sea, they are human creation. While marine litter consists of various materials; many plastics float or remain in the water, making them more visible. Marine waste can harm ecosystem, human Marine litter, it was learnt, is not only ugly – it can harm ocean ecosystems, wildlife, and humans. It can injure coral reefs and bottom dwelling species and entangle or drown ocean wildlife. Some marine animals ingest the litter and choke or starve. Medical waste (such as syringes), sharp objects, and large pieces of litter can pose a direct threat to humans. A pervasive problem plaguing the world Marine litter is one of the most pervasive and solvable pollution problem plaguing the world’s oceans and waterways. Nets, food wrappers, cigarette filters, bottles, resin pellets, and other debris items can have serious impacts on wildlife, habitat, and human safety. Successful management of the problem requires a comprehensive understanding of both marine debris and human behaviour. Knowledge is key for consumers to make appropriate choices when it comes to using and disposing of waste items. Education and outreach programs, strong laws and policies, and governmental and private enforcement are the building blocks for a successful marine pollution prevention initiative. The plastic industry also has a role to play in educating its employees and customers, and searching for technological mitigation strategies. Working  in partnership with industries, local, state government Peterside has left nobody in doubt that he was appointed by President Muhammadu Bihari to protect the nation’s ocean and sea. Findings revealed that ocean pollution is not a problem limited to one country, or even one continent. But it’s becoming increasingly clear that what happens in one state can have impacts across the country. That is why the stakeholders said NIMASA needs to work in partnership with local, state, the Federal Government, industry players, NGOs and the United Nations in resolving that good prevention and waste management is the key to keeping waste out of the nation’s territorial waters. Problems and threats by marine litter: Investigation revealed that there are numerous problems and threats associated with marine litter, which include environmental, social and economic impacts. These problems are interconnected and difficult to solve separately. Its general implications for the Nigerian economy are also enormous, such as beach cleaning, loss of tourism and tits negative impacts on fishing industry. It poses a considerable threat to the health and productivity of marine ecosystems. No wonder Peterside said, “The presence of marine litter in our waters is impacting negatively on NIMASA’s Strategic Objectives, most notably the drive to make Nigeria a greener, wealthier and fairer, safer and stronger and healthier nation.” Risk to human health: Marine litter can pose significant risks to human health and is considered a public health issue, both as beached litter or circulating in coastal waters Beached marine litter such as broken glass, medical waste, fishing line, and discarded syringes can harm beach users as well as the risks associated with the leaching of poisonous chemicals. Findings revealed that In the United Kingdom, between 1988 and 1991, four per cent of injuries by needles reported to the Public Health Laboratory Service (PHLS) in the Southwest of England were sustained on the beach. Sewage related debris is particularly harmful and is considered a potential biohazard and may act as a vector for viruses and bacteria. Hazzards to vessels, ferries and trawlers: The Managing Director, Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Ms Hadiza Bala Usman who was represented at the event by the  Executive Director, Marine and Operations, Mr Seko te Davis said  that marine litter poses navigational hazards to all kinds of vessels such as submarines, passenger ferries, fishing trawlers and can result in loss of life. The major risks to navigation from marine litter mostly during poor weather conditions, according to Usman include: “Apart from the normal navigational hazards by pleasure craft and commercial ships, the same risks also apply to military activities which are active in the marine, submarine and inter-littoral zones. Marine litter can disturb the physical environment, affecting the ability to detect certain phenomena many of which are important to the Navy’s defence capability,” she said. Threats to fisherman: A boat operator and fisherman in Ojo Area of Lagos, Mr Sunday Davies said they are are also facing threat from marine litter. Threats to fishermen, according to Davies include the snagging of fishing gear on marine litter, increasing the risk of capsize, and in some circumstances resulting in loss of life of some of their members. “Remediation and preventative measures are only available for Captains of big vessels and trawler through the deployment of surveillance equipment by NIMASA to identify the location of lost objects; the notification to mariners of the location of floating or sunken containers, cargo or debris; the emergency towing of floating containers; and the transfer of cargo from a stricken vessel, all of which are dependent on the management of the agency,” Davies said. Impact of marine litter to Nigerian economy “Marine litter has a fast, direct and indirect impact upon the Nigerian economy. For several years policy makers and communities have experienced the problem of marine litter on beaches, waterways, bays and ports and the subsequent impacts on a range of economic activities. “For instance, costs for cleaning operations or lost fishing revenue from entanglement are still captured in traditional economic calculations but the economic implications of degraded ecosystem services are still difficult to value,” said a ship owner Mr Fola Badmus. What stakeholders say A university don and maritime lawyer, Mr. Dipo Alaka, said marine litter directly impacts on ocean life, marine habitats, human health, and navigational safety with potential impacts on socio-economic development of nations. This, he said, necessitated the need for NIMASA to collaborate with UNEP Global Partnership Action (GPA) in 2015 to carry out a scientific study on marine litter challenge in Nigeria, thereby culminating to the development of the national action plan on marine litter and its campaign concept. Employment generation: The issue of marine litters, stakeholders say, has always been a challenge of the nation’s Maritime sector, and that is why  Peterside came up with the strategy of employing locals as marine litter marshals to serve as watchdog around their areas. Stakeholders say the strategy is worth emulating. Apart from tackling unemployment, it gives youths a sense of belonging as stakeholders in their environment. The initiative is also seen as part of efforts to tackle youth restiveness in the riverine areas, which hitherto was a challenge for the Federal Government. NIMASA as the agency responsible for Marine environment: NIMASA as the agency of government responsible for marine environment management in its continuous quest to reposition the Nigerian maritime sector in line with global best practices has taken the step to engage some young Nigerians as marine litter marshals who are expected to ensure that the oceans are kept clean and safe. Marine litter as a global problem: A former General Manager, Public Affairs of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) Chief Micheal Kayode Ajayi said the Federal Government through the Ministry of Transportation and NIMASA must strengthen their joint measures to combat marine litter and coordinate its future action plan. “We need a broad-based package of measures and the creative strength of the government and the civil society to cope with the amounts of litter in our oceans. Which was exactly why NIMASA launched the Action Plan? What needs to be done? The Vice President of the Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA), Dr Kayode Farinto, said NIMASA must ensure that plastics makers in the country are working with the agency, NGOs and other public and private sector actors in order to develop and pilot systemic interventions that will focus resources where they can have the most immediate and significant impact in areas and economies where the most waste enters the ocean. Effects of marine litter: Investigation has shown that marine litter causes marine environmental, economic, health and aesthetic problems, including possible transfer of toxic substances and invasive species, destruction of marine habitats and loss of biodiversity. It also threatens marine life through entanglement, suffocation and ingestion as well as poses a risk to human health and life hence, the need to find solutions to it. Solution to the problem: “Solutions to this endemic problem must include reduction, reuse, increased recycling, tough litter abatement laws, and well-run municipal waste management systems. “A voluntary commitment by the retail sector to reduce the use of plastic bags, in addition to a new recycling law with higher quotas for plastic waste, would also ensure the prevention of plastic waste in the oceans and seas,” Farinto said.