The Federal Government of Nigeria, FGN, has planned to digitalise management and control of land borders for effective surveillance and intelligence gathering. FGN said it will tackle the issue of the porous border by partnering with Huawei company. The Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, made the disclosure on Friday while launching some projects donated by Huawei company to Ogedengbe School of Science,  Ilesa,  Osun State,  which include toilet, water supply, and laboratory to create a conducive environment for learning in the school. He added that the government would be partnering with Global Information and Communications Technology Company, Huawei, to achieve this goal. The Managing Director of the company, Mr. Zhang Lulu, while handing over the projects, said the firm was committed to achieving a fully digitalised system in Nigeria, adding that Nigerian youths must be well equipped with ICT skills to contribute immensely to the nation’s growth and development. Meanwhile, the national coordinator of a non-governmental organisation, Citizenship Civic Awareness Centre, (CCAC), the organisation that facilitated the project, Adeola Shoetan, while speaking with newsmen, stressed that UNICEF report on Nigeria a few years ago revealed that 50 percent of Nigerians,  including students, do not have access to a toilet. He said his organisation approached Huawei through the minister of interior, adding that the company when contacted was shocked to hear that a school of science could exist without toilet and electricity supply. Speaking earlier, the principal of the school, Mrs. Felicia Orimoogunje, said the school had witnessed terrible experience for lack of basic infrastructures like toilet, electricity supply, and functional laboratory. She, however, lauded the minister and Huawei for coming to their rescue as she averred that “the toilet facility will put an end to open defecation, and the electricity will further enhance better performance of our students in their science practical exercise.” 