 Germany-based football’s  physical instructor cum fitness trainer Tunde Arosanyin believes that the training techniques in Nigeria and other African teams are out dated, advising an urgent need to upgrade to modern techniques. The Nigerian made this known in a paper written in collaboration with German institutions including University of Sport, Cologne; University of Leipzig; Vollmann Group and Werner Sport-Verein, Bochum. “The leading European football countries that African teams are tempted to copy training techniques have acknowledged the need to modernize many of their existing structures and performance technology,” Arosanyin wrote in the paper titled ‘programmes provided for African Teams in FIFA World Cup’. “For example, when I was the fitness trainer for Asante Kotoko in Ghana, I noticed during a training tour with the Black Stars of Ghana preparing for the 2010 World Cup in South Africa; the lack in Aerobic endurance and high intensity training which is useful to perform short rapid movement and agility sprints for 5 to 15 minutes during a proper game was not addressed,” he said. Arosanyin, who is also a sports psychologist, stressed the need for a good working relationship between coaches, sports doctors and fitness trainers, adding that negative working atmosphere can adversely affect the players, especially those recovering from injuries. “A good working relationship is very essential,” he explained. “A general fitness regime must be maintained, especially when treating injured players.” “Some coaches, due to external and internal pressure, would want to rush a player who is injured into playing again and this might lead to a clash between them and the fitness and medical teams. “I believe it is better for treatment to take a bit longer to return to full fitness than the risk of getting injured a second time.” “It is due to poor supervision of treatment training that many footballers get injured almost immediately the recover from their previous injury and these kinds of injuries might make them lose confidence in themselves,” Arosanyin added.        