Lagos State Commissioner for Health Prof. Akin Abayomi has urged members of the newly-constituted Traditional Medicine Board Research Group of the Lagos State Traditional Medicine Board to embark on advocacy that will focus on conservation and preservation of the state’s biodiversity. He spoke when he met members of the committee to review their activities since the committee was inaugurated last month and also to identify areas that need the intervention of the Ministry of Health. Abayomi stressed that efforts must be made to preserve the natural habitat, explaining that some plants by nature would not grow in an artificial environment. “The call to preserve the environment is such that affects everyone, but you as traditional medicine practitioners are more affected because you don’t have the micro environment for some plants, hence the need to give it whatever it takes to restore biodiversity at all costs,” he said. The commissioner underscored the need for members of the Research Group to work hand in hand with the Health Facility Monitoring and Accreditation Agency (HEFAMAA) of the ministry to identify grey areas that needed attention while conducting clinical studies or trials in the alternative medicine way. “Besides domesticating your own clinical studies, you must also set for yourself a Standard Operating Procedure that has international benchmark with laid down ethics guiding your conduct and operations,” he said. Abayomi added that the ministry was making efforts towards obtaining grants from its donor partners and funding agencies to support government research programmes. He said a Grant Management Unit has been established to coordinate activities in this area. The Chairman of the Traditional Medicine Board, Prof. Adebukunola Oshitelu, said the board was planning to engage more institutions for a robust research group. Oshitelu, a former dean at the University of Lagos, Akoka, said the task before the board is Herculean, noting that with the crop of professionals as members of the board, there will be development in the administration of the Traditional Medicine Board. A member of the Research Group and Director, Centre for Research and Development, Federal University of Technology, Akure (FUTA), Prof. Ganiu Oboh, said that researchers should not just look into the efficacy of plants, but the toxicology aspect must also be thoroughly researched into in addition to the dosages. He enjoined the Registrar of the board, Mr. Olorunkemi Kadiku, to focus on thematic aspects of research, noting that Nigeria’s issues must be solved using Nigerian way. Dr. Timothy Akinmurele of Equitable Health Access Initiative said his firm is working with the Grant Management Unit of the state’s Ministry of Health.