Ernest Nwokolo, Abeokuta  Ogun State Government has revoked the appointments of 75 minor chiefs elevated to Coronet Obas by Governor Ibikunle Amosun days to expiration of his administration. The revocation is sequel to the report of Oba Kehinde Olugbenle-led Chieftaincy Review Committee, which had earlier submitted its to the Government. The report faulted the process of the chiefs ‘elevation, citing non – adherence to the laid down procedure as part of the reasons the elevation should be reviewed. Addressing reporters in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, after the State Council meeting at the Executive Council Chambers, Governor’s Office, Oke-Mosan, Commissioner for Industry, Trade and Investment, Mrs. Kikelomo Longe, said the revocation was in consonance with the legal notice number three of 2019. “The Council approved the revocation of the appointments of 75 minor chiefs as Coronet Obas in Legal notice number three of 2019,” she said. The Industry, Trade and Investment Commissioner disclosed that a new, Ministry of Transportation, saddled with the responsibility of handling road, rail, air and sea transport systems in the State, has been created. She also revealed that three new agencies under the Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development, namely, Ogun State Planning and Development Permit Authority, Ogun State Building Production Management Authority and Ogun State Slum Regeneration Authority have also been created. She informed of the Council’s decision to rename two ministries. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry, she said, would now be known as Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment and Ministry of Urban and Physical Planning, has been renamed the Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development. “The Council also approved the constitution of the Ogun State Tenders Board in line with the administration’s commitment to ensure qualitative and focused governance,” she added. While stressing the desire of the administration for all agencies to work as a team, Mrs. Longe said approval was given for an increased synergy amongst the various Ministries, Departments and agencies in response to growing concerns about multiple taxation, perceived duplication of various charges and consequently emplaced an initiative to harmonise revenue receiving mechanisms in the state to avoid duplication. Mrs. Longe said government agreed on the need for active advocacy on health awareness on communicable diseases like coronavirus and Lassa fever, adding that roadmaps presented by Commissioners for Industry, Trade and Investment, physical Planning and Urban Development as well as Budget and Planning were extensively reviewed and approved.