  Benue State governor Samuel Ortom has urged Nigerians to unite against the enemies of the country. He spoke at the book launch titled: Fatal Arrogance, authored by Terrance Kaumum, in Abuja. The book exposes El- Zakzakky, IMN as terrorist groups. He was represented by his Senior Special Assistant on Liaison Mr. Baba Acka at the event. Ortom said Nigerians must unite with a view to battle those putting the lives of people at precarious situation, noting that foreign actors were mostly behind the troubles the country was facing. The governor who was the distinguished guest of honour added that the author wrote from the perspectives of experience, saying he survived many battles. Speaking, Chancellor of Centre for International and Strategic Studies (CISS) Prof Ahmed Danfulani said the mission and vision of IMN had not been officially stated. According to him, El-Zakzaky has severally made statements that mirrors the missions, goals and intentions of the group. “Their mission as an extremist organisation has also been captured in their official websites etc. What is known about their mission and vision could be seen when a careful study of their confessions and professions is embarked upon. “Their sole mission which is to establish an Islamic state has been politically resisted by the government and other religious groups, however the IMN have also engaged in violent acts that could be regarded as terrorism. “It should be noted that just like how Boko Haram started, the activities of IMN is taking to the same pattern and process. “The Mission and vision of IMN show their disregard for the Nigerian state and deliberate intensions to overthrow the Nigerian government through violent means.” The author said some international actors have begun taking advantage of the security situation in Nigeria which made it difficult for citizens to coexist together as Nigerians. He lamented the number of lives lost across the nation because of non-state actors who have continued to set the narratives to destabilise the nation through violent agitations for their own selfish interest. “At a point our sovereignty was questioned because someone else was setting the narratives for us,” he said.