The PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) put the environmental cost of gas flaring to Nigeria at N28.8 billion ($94 million) annually. The huge revenue loss to gas flaring could be used to finance key infrastructure projects. Experts are, therefore, calling on the government to tighten the loose ends in its regulatory framework and gas infrastructure to stem the scourge. They note that this will also help make Nigeria part of the global push to achieve zero gas flaring by 2030. Assistant Editor CHIKODI OKEREOCHA reports It was probably the most comprehensive and promising policy strategy to end gas flaring in Nigeria. But like other policies that came before it, there are concerns that the Nigeria Gas Flare Commercialisation Programme (NGFCP) may go the way of previous policies that failed to make good their promises of eliminating gas flaring and halting the mind-boggling financial haemorrhage it has continued to inflict on the economy and the environment of oil-bearing communities in the Niger Delta region. The NGFCP is an initiative of the Federal Ministry of Petroleum Resources. It was launched on December 13, 2016. The Programme was designed as the strategy to implement the Federal Government’s policy objectives of eliminating gas flaring, reducing the environmental and social impacts of gas flaring, preventing the waste of the natural resource, and creating social and economic benefits from gas flare capture. To achieve these objectives, the Federal Government, under NGFCP, hire competent third party investors (i.e. licensees) through a transparent and competitive bidding process to capture the flared gas, utilise and monetise it. The licensees will then be required to use the necessary technology to set up facilities for the delivery and collection of gas at the flare points. To further underscore its resolve to prohibit gas flaring, the government went a notch higher, issuing the “Flare Gas (Prevention of Waste and Pollution) Regulations 2018.” The new regulation increased the gas flare penalty for oil-producing companies. Accordingly, it set a penalty of $2 per thousand standard cubic feet of gas for production of 10, 000 barrels of crude oil per day or more; the penalty of $0.5 per thousand standard cubic feet for those producing less than 10, 000 barrels per day. The regulation also imposed a mandatory additional payment of $2.50 per cubic feet for failure to produce accurate flare data, sign connection agreement and provide access to flare site. The NGFCP put the number of gas flare points across the crude oil production fields in the country at 178. A source in the industry said: “Government must roll up its sleeve and address the absence of infrastructural support particularly the lack of processing and storage facilities, as well as pass other components of the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB).” He also said despite the Programme’s launch, Nigeria still lacked a clear-cut strategy to end gas flaring. This, he said, stemmed from the country’s weak regulatory framework, below optimal punitive measures for gas flare defaulters, as well as low incentives for investors in the gas value chain. Gas flaring, according to industry experts, is flared associated gas produced alongside crude oil. This loss may result from inadequate or absence of technology to separate the gas from crude oil and lack of infrastructure to capture, store, process and monetize the associated gas. Some oil and gas companies are said to prefer to flare gas, as it is cheaper to pay gas flare penalty than building the requisite infrastructure to capture and put the flared gas into use. This, The Nation learnt, must be why major oil companies prefer the cheaper option of flaring gas as a waste product to deploying huge resources into processing gas for domestic and other uses. The Chief Executive Officer of Degeconek Nigeria Limited, and former President of Nigeria Association of Petroleum Explorationists (NAPE), Abiodun Adesanya, confirmed this much when he said fines for gas flaring are not punitive enough to deter companies from flaring gas. Derefaka, however, insisted that the Regulations 2018 were couched “To make sure that investors have that appetite to say this is actually a viable business and come in.” Exuding so much confidence, he described the NGFCP as “The first global gas flare initiative in the world.” However, more than three years down the line, the initiative, widely acknowledged by stakeholders in the oil & gas industry as a unique and historic opportunity to attract major investments in economically viable gas flare capture projects and also permanently address a seemingly intractable environmental menace has not recorded much progress. This is so judging by current statistics and positions of Nigeria in the global push to end gas flaring. Multinational professional services company PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) put the situation in perspective when it said in its latest report that the Nigerian economy lost an estimated N233 billion, about $761.6 million, to gas flaring in 2018. In the report titled “Assessing the Impact of Gas Flaring on Nigeria’s Economy,” PwC, citing the World Bank, said gas flaring cost the global economy $20 billion, about N7.2 trillion, in 2018. It, however, said Nigeria’s economy lost N233 billion ($761.6 million) to gas flaring, which translated to 3.8 per cent of the global total cost in 2018. As if the monetary cost of gas flaring to Nigeria is not depressing and unflattering enough, PwC, in the report made available to The Nation, also said the environmental cost of gas flaring amounted to N28.8 billion, about $94 million, annually, according to the National Environmental, Economic and Development Study (NEEDS) for Climate Change in Nigeria. The report, however, noted that the percentage of gas flared in Nigeria has been reducing since 2002, and stood at 10 per cent in 2018. It attributed the drop to increased reinjection of gas to lift more crude oil out of the wells when production declines; significant growth in industrialisation around oil-producing areas, which has been responsible for mopping up gas flares for industrial use. It also said growing environmental awareness and regulations has compelled International Oil Companies (IOCs) in Nigeria to cut down their emissions level due to global outcry. “With global oil markets somewhat depressed, more countries and oil producers are investing in the commercialization of gas as the current growth market,” it added. PwC, however, said in terms of volume of gas flared, Nigeria still ranked in the top 10 gas-flaring countries in the world, with 7.4 billion cubic feet in 2018. It stated that the total gas flared in Nigeria accounted for 6.9 per cent of the top 10 gas-flaring countries in 2018. The PwC publication was the first of a three-part series on the Nigerian gas sector, aimed at highlighting the industry issues and challenges, as well as assesses the opportunities across the value chain, in addition to providing an outlook for the sector. The report, which was authored by a team of six in-house experts led by Partner, Energy, Utilities & Resources Leader, PwC, Pedro Omontuemhen, said the economic effect of gas flaring was quantified in terms of the lost amount of revenue that could have been generated from utilizing the volume of gas flared. How gas flaring hurts Nigeria The PwC report gave disturbing details of how gas flaring hurts the economy and the environment. For instance, the report did not mince words when it said the N233billion revenue lost from gas flaring could have been put to economic use. The firm said the huge sum could be used to finance many priority projects. It said, for instance, that the N233 billion can finance other development projects valued at N9.8 billion; rehabilitate airports and aerodrome worth N12.4 billion; build roads valued at N116 billion; finance housing and health capital expenditure at N12.6 billion and N57 billion, respectively; electricity and climate change, at N10.7 billion and N1.1 billion, respectively. That is not all. PwC also said from its analysis, Nigeria also lost value from the derivatives that could be produced if gas was transported to refineries for further processing. “The monetary economic value addition that could have been recovered from derivatives of natural gas flared in 2018 totalled $2.73 billion,” it said. Also, aside from the revenue value from gas derivatives, there are other economic benefits if gas processing activities are carried out, such as more job opportunities, infrastructure development, etc. Indeed, Derefaka had at a recent conference in Lagos, projected that over two years, the NGFCP could generate approximately 26, 000 direct jobs, with an average labour force of 300 per project and approximately 300, 000 direct and indirect jobs. Apart from contributing to the nation’s GDP to the tune of $800 million to $1 billion annually, the Programme Manager also said if flared gas is properly exploited, it has the potential to produce 600,000 MT of LPG per year and generate 2.5 gigawatts (GW) of power from new and existing Independent Power Projects (IPPs). Derefaka revealed that Nigeria currently utilises almost 700 mmscf/d of gas for power production, which could be doubled by capturing and commercialising flared gas. He added that about $3.5 billion worth of inward investments are required to achieve the country’s flare gas commercialisation targets by 2020. Missed flare-out targets Although the NGFCP was Nigeria’s latest shot at ending gas flaring and its associated economic and environmental costs, the government had in the past come up with several policies regulating gas flaring, which never worked. For instance, there was the 1979 “Associated Gas Re-Injection Amendment Decree 99”, to compel oil and gas producing companies to submit proposals for the utilisation of associated gas in their operating areas and stop gas flaring, except by express permission of the Minister. Where gas is flared without obtaining the permission of the Minister in writing, it amounts to an offence resulting in the forfeiture of concessions granted concerning the field or fields in connection to which the offence was committed. The minister may grant permission if satisfied that gas re-injection is not feasible, by the issuance of a certificate which permits a company engaged in the production of oil or gas to continue to flare gas upon the payment of charges prescribed by the minister from time to time. Also, in 2008, the government unveiled the “Nigeria Gas Master Plan.” Its target was to stimulate the multiplier effect of gas in the domestic economy, position Nigeria competitively in high-value export markets, and guarantee Nigeria’s long term energy security. Ultimately, its target was to end gas flaring in 2008. Again, the deadline wasn’t met. On the strength of the NGFCP, the Federal Government also set another deadline to end regular gas flaring by 2020. But as the 2020 deadline drew closer, Derefaka dashed the hopes of Nigerians when he admitted that the government was experiencing slips. He even requested a change of timeline. He said: “We have gone back to the drawing board to come up with a robust timeline, where we will actualise some of it. Federal Government has said it would end gas flaring by 2020, but the United Nations’ deadline is 2030. Not all the flare sites will go by 2020. Some will go next year and the rest after.” What was his reason (s) for shifting the goal post? Again, Derefaka explained: “The reason is that we are not looking to construct long pipelines. But we are looking at scalable technology that can be used to harness flare…” That was in Abuja, at the unveiling of a documentary produced by Africa Initiative for Transparency, Accountability and Responsible Leadership on the impact of the country’s corruption and growing conflict on investment on the nation’s economy. Before it became obvious that the zero gas flaring by 2020 was not feasible, the former Group Managing Director of the national oil company, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Dr. Maikanti Baru, had announced that Nigeria would achieve the 2020 target. The former Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Dr. Ibe Kachikwu, also insisted that the Federal Government’s target to exit gas flaring in 2020 remained. To end the scourge Beyond the reasons adduced by Derefaka for Nigeria’s failure to achieve the 2020 deadline, are there other hurdles in the way to eliminating gas flaring in Africa’s largest oil producer? What can Nigeria, which has the largest proven gas reserves in Africa and the ninth-largest in the world (as at 2018), with 5, 675 billion cubic metres (200.41 trillion cubic feet) of natural gas, do to be part of the global push to end gas flaring by 2030? The Global Gas Flaring Reduction (GGFR) Partnership, which is the leading concerted effort in eliminating gas flaring globally, hopes to achieve zero gas flaring by 2030. The UN is also looking at 2030 for zero gas flare, just as the International Energy Agency (IEA) said it believes that gas flaring will drop to zero level by 2030, due to individual and joint government commitments via regulatory pledges to the cause. While President Muhammadu Buhari had on the strength of the 2015 Paris Accord, committed to contributing to reducing gas emissions which of course gas flaring contributes to, experts say that such commitment must be backed by the strong political will to sort out the issues responsible for failure to meet earlier national flare-out targets. According to them, mustering the necessary political will is required to tighten Nigeria’s perceived loose regulatory framework and legislative backing for initiatives aimed at ending gas flaring. It will also help address the lack of infrastructure required to capture, produce and evacuate the gas. Massive investments in gas infrastructure (pipelines and processing plant) between gas supply sources and the market, according to experts, would create a sustainable evacuation route for flared gas and other gas sources. “An infrastructure-enabled system will ensure it is more expensive to flare gas,” PwC said, adding that there is also need to expedite the passage of other components of the PIB into law. It stated that the Petroleum Industry Administration Bill, Petroleum Industry Host Community Bill and Petroleum Industry Fiscal Bill are components of the PIB that are yet to be passed.