The American Society of Safety Professionals (ASSP), Nigeria Chapter has started registration for the 7th edition of its annual professional development conference and exhibition. ASSP is a global organisation and the world’s oldest safety society with more than 37,000 occupational safety and health (OSH) professional members who manage, supervise, research and consult on work-related OSH concerns in all industries, government and education. A statement by the ASSP President, Nsikak Ekam, said the conference/ exhibition is slated for March 19- 21st at the NAF Conference Centre, Abuja. Ekam stated the conference will be giving special focus to workplace safety. Explaining, he said the spate of “human loss and suffering at workplace is immeasurable. It is desirable that every person who leaves for work in the morning should expect to return home at night in good health. “Can you imagine the knock on the door to tell you your loved one will never be returning home? Or the phone-call to say he’s in the hospital and may never walk again? Ensuring that husbands return to their wives, wives to their husbands, parents to their children, and friends to their friends — that is the most important reason to create a safe and healthy work environment.” “We hope at this conference, like never before, to sell to participants that safety “start’s with you” and that it’s our collective responsibility both as individuals, employer of labour, and government to make safety a culture.” The ASSP President encouraged Nigerians to learn from the tragic occurrences and understand that all accidents are preventable. This year’s conference will feature two keynote speakers Larry Wilson, an experienced safety consultant and Chief Executive officer of Safe Start International, Canada and Thomas Kramer, Managing Principal LJB Inc, USA. The conference will enable participants to listen to technical presentations of papers by experts from the safety industry, plenary sessions, product presentation and exhibition, networking with top executives from Nigeria and International Community. Some top dignitaries expected at the conference include, Diana Stegall, ASSP global President; Rt. Hon. Legor Idagbo, Chairman, House Committee on Nigeria Content Development; Hassan Ali, General Manager, GHSEQ, Nigeria National Petroleum Company, among others.