 TO tackle insecurity on Nigeria’s waters and its exclusive economic zone, the Federal Government is set to deploy its integrated maritime security infrastructure. The Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, stated this on Monday in Lagos ahead of the launch of the Integrated National Security and Waterways Protection Infrastructure, also called the Deep Blue Project. The minister also explained the government’s decision to end the secure anchorage project, a private security initiative run outside the country’s port system. He insisted that ships coming into the country must anchor at the national ports under the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA). Amaechi restated the government’s determination to tackle maritime insecurity head-on. He assured that the project, when operational, would reduce piracy and other crimes within Nigeria’s maritime domain and the Gulf of Guinea. “Recall that we secured an approval from the Federal Executive Council to introduce a maritime security architecture, which is coming to fruition. We engaged the Homeland Security International (HLSI), who are only to provide training and equipment, while the Nigerian Navy would lead the Police, Nigerian Army and Department of State Services, among others that would run the equipment,” Amaechi explained. He added that the security of the maritime sector needs a more holistic approach, hence the need to involve other arms of the country’s security services to support the Nigerian Navy working with NIMASA. Similarly, the Director-General of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), while expatiating on the Deep Blue Project, said 80 per cent of the assets required for the takeoff of the spectrum maritime security architecture would be deployed by June. He said many of the equipment for the project had arrived the country, including six interceptor boats and a special mission vessel, saying a second one would come in before the end of this month. Peterside also disclosed that the first special mission aircraft would be in the country before the end of the first quarter of the year, while six armoured aircraft were already in the country, and the first unmanned aerial vehicle would come in before the end of th e month.  