Editorial  The wars in Afghanistan and Iraq have for a long time made the two countries the most terrorised in the world, given the style and number of deaths recorded. However, Nigeria, a country seemingly at peace since the end of the civil war, has been recorded as the third most terrorised country in the world due to the number, consistency and style of killings in the country. Sadly, in a country without strong systems to nip in the bud certain crimes, blood has continued to flow needlessly due to all manner of frivolous reasons. For instance, the basic principle of the Boko Haram insurgents has been that western education is a crime. They are so averse to the acquisition of education that they have had cause to kidnap several school children like the Chibok and Dapchi school girls, amongst who is the now famous Leah Sharibu. Some school boys were at one time killed in their school dormitory at BirniYadi, also in the North East. Countless other killings have occurred in very gruesome circumstances, sometimes with their places of worship and homes burnt. The recent kidnap and gruesome murder of Rev. Lawan Andimi, the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) Northern Chairman by the Boko Haram terrorists for his refusal to convert to Islam must have been the last straw that irked the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adeboye, to lead Christians to walk in protest over the killings around the country last week. Adeboye had instructed his church members all over Nigeria to observe the walk.  We commend the civility and organisational ability displayed by the church leader. His strategy is admirable and his message was unmistakably to the point. He reminded the people that when crisis starts, it consumes everyone without discrimination. Again, the church leader led by example. The plank of his message was ‘All souls are precious to God’. He used his global influence to draw attention to the carnage in the country, with the civility of a peace maker. He seemed to have been preaching the legendary Gandhian principle that if the world is to take an eye for an eye, the whole world would be blind. He emphasised the need for religious tolerance and peaceful co-existence in what has seemed like a much divided nation based on religious tension and differences. Pastor Adeboye’s actions are commendable and we expect that other clerics across all faiths can adopt this style of preaching peace for a better Nigeria. After all, religion is supposed to be in the service of the people and not to hurt them. We however hope that the Federal Government takes a cue from this action and tries to nip in the bud the terrorists’ destructive tendencies. To hold the ignominious trophy of the third most terrorised nation in the world is not a title to be proud of. The people must, through action, be shown that the government is there to protect them. No country thrives under the kind of chaos and mistrust that exist in Nigeria today.