Former Minister of Agriculture Alhaji Sani Zango Daura, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has urged leaders and members of the ruling party to ensure that the party outlive 2023. He gave the advice in Abuja at the opening of the 2020 National Executive Council (NEC) meeting of a pressure group within the ruling party, Aspirants Forum. The forum is the gathering of all aspirants that contested for the party’s tickets for various elective offices during the 2019 general elections. Daura who is the patron of the forum, maintained that loyalty of party members  is key to the survival of the party beyond 2023. Apparently speaking against the  protests rocking the party, the APC chieftain cautioned against what he described as unnecessary bickering and protests to enable the party to  provide the political leadership for the country beyond 2023. The elder statesman cautioned party faithful against falling prey of disloyal members, who he described as ‘irritants’ and remain focused to the ideals of the party in order to deliver the dividends of democracy and for the party to continue to be relevant in years to come. “Don’t be dirverted by irritants. Whenever you are succeeding, envy must set in. It is for us as party members to be loyal to the administration, to the party and to our leaders. When lapses are identified don’t make it public but seek for peaceful dialogue in solving such identified lapses,” Daura advised. He called on those saddled with the leadership responsibility in the party to be just in the discharge of their duties and responsibilities to stem crisis in the party. The national coordinator of the forum, Lt. Colonel Abdulaziz Musa Yar”adua (rtd), said the forum was out to complement the efforts of President Muhammadu Buhari and the ruling party at delivering the yearnings of the Nigerian masses. He said the forum, which is the gathering of aspirants of the party at all levels during the 2019 elections in the 36 states of the country and the federal capital, was poised to contributing their efforts at ensuring the success of the party beyond 2023.