Last week’s  dislodgment of the concessionaire managing the access toll plaza at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA)  by some unions of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) further exposes the state of concession agreement. KELVIN OSA OKUNBOR reports.  Concession agreements introduced a few years ago in the aviation industry to automate and enhance revenue collection for the airport authority is becoming a pain in the neck. Conceived as an intervention for facilities upgrade and revenue collection for the aeronautical value chain, it is becoming a huge source of controversy. Experts say concession experience in the industry has become toxic given the circumstances in which they were conceived, implemented and abruptly terminated. Indeed, the industry concession has become a tale of controversies. The list is endless. From the controversies trailing the termination of the Airport  Operations Management System (AOMS) concession that the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) signed with Maevis Nigeria Limited  to the Ports and Cargo charges collection concession it signed with Pan Express Nigeria Limited and the Build, Operate and Transfer (BOT)  concession it signed with Bi- Courtney Aviation Services Limited (BASL) for the Murtala Muhammed Airport Terminal Two (MMA2), the experience has been awry. In a manner not strange to stakeholders, last week, members of three aviation unions namely the Air Transport Services Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (ATSSSAN), National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE) and Association of Nigerian Aviation Professionals (ANAP) in FAAN stormed the access toll plaza at MMIA to dislodge the concessionaire collecting toll at the facility. The unions said they carried out the action, following the failure of FAAN management to terminate the five-year concession it signed with Integrated Intelligent Imaging West Africa Limited (I-CUBE), which expired over 12 months ago. Experts say concession experience in the industry has become toxic given the circumstances in which they were conceived, implemented and abruptly terminated The unions’ grouse, it was gathered, was not just about the expiration of the contract, but also allegations of non-remittance of appropriate proceeds to FAAN by the concessionaire, having managed the toll gate for over a decade. The workers in their hundreds under the supervision of the four  unions besieged the access gate as early as 7 am  on Monday, last week taking over control of ticketing points from I-CUBE managers. The workers after dislodging I-CUBE staff, drafted staff members of the commercial department to man the gates. Speaking to reporters, one of the union leaders, ANAP General Secretary, Comrade Abdulrasaq Saidu, who supervised the take over, said management of access gate remained the responsibility of commercial department of FAAN, adding that politicians had messed up the system through illegal concession of revenue points at the airports. Saidu alleged that the concession of the access gate was fraudulent without a review of the contract for more than five years, adding that the traffic on the route had greatly increased since the last exercise was carried out. He further alleged that some individuals in FAAN and the aviation ministry had compromised over the access gate, saying that the government was losing revenue from there. He explained that following series of meetings held with the aviation minister, FAAN boss on different occasions, it was made known to them that the workers were going to take over the access gate and run it by FAAN commercial department to raise its revenue. Also, the Deputy National President, Air Transport, Comrade Sarah Rimdams said the workers came to recover their revenue points to the government as the contract with I-CUBE expired last February. Rimdams said the company had been remitting N68million monthly but there was need for an upward review of the contract, adding that the commercial department of FAAN has taken over and will ensure that they exceed the N68million. She disclosed that the access gate was being test-run by FAAN to  know how much could be generated monthly, saying that it would be more. Reacting to the take-over, I-CUBE Manager, Mr Toluwaleke Abajingin, told reporters that he was surprised to see workers and unions taking over the access gate in the early hours of Monday. Abajingin said the case involving Rose Pine Integrated Limited, FAAN and I-CUBE was in court, adding that as a responsible organisation, I-CUBE workers did not resist. He said I-CUBE had been paying FAAN and that they were never informed about any upward review of the contract. Abajingin said there was a first right of refusal, saying that FAAN had not communicated to I -CUBE on the agreement. But, the development took a new twist on Tuesday, when workers of I-Cube tried to stage a come back at the toll gate. They were, however, resisted by the unions. To avoid a break down of law and order, the Federal Government drafted policemen  and Nigeria Air Force personnel to the Murtala Muhammed International Airport  ( MMIA ) Access Toll Gate, following tussle for control of the revenue point between aviation union workers and staff members of I-CUBE. The deployment has not only ensured sanity to the area, it has also brought a sigh of relief to motorists  using the tollgate as they passed  without paying tolls. With this development, FAAN and the concessionaire lost significant  revenue. ANAP Secretary-General, Comrade Abdulrazak Saidu, said the take over of the gate by security officers would not stop their insistence that the contractor be relieved of the contract since it had expired. According to him, “the action we took last week,  the Minister of Aviation and the Management of FAAN are aware because we told them at a meeting last year that we do not want the contractor again; that the money he is paying is too small. We want to review it.“ “The unions will met next week. We cannot allow concessionaires to continue to milk FAAN dry with the token they pay as concession agreement.’’ FAAN General Manager,  Public Affairs, Mrs Henrietta Yakubu, said the authority had not terminated the concession. She said the agreement was suspended to allow FAAN workers manage the facility. Yakubu said: “It was not a termination, but suspension of functions. FAAN is just taking over temporarily to determine actual revenue generated. The commercial department is collecting tolls.” However, sources hinted that FAAN management last Tuesday  terminated the concession agreement. In a memo titled: Re: Concession Agreement between FAAN and Messrs I-Cube West Africa Limited in respect of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport Access Gate”,  dated February 4, 2020 and signed by FAAN Managing Director,Captain Rabiu Yadudu and addressed to the Managing Director of I-Cube, the Authority said it was ready to take over the place to ascertain the actual amount being generated. It was not a termination, but suspension of functions. FAAN is just taking over temporarily to determine actual revenue generated. The commercial department is collecting tolls It asked the workers of the concessionaire to vacate the premises immediately. “We refer to the above-mentioned Agreement, which commenced on the 10th of February 2014 and expired on the 9th February, 2019. “Kindly be informed that the Authority has resolved to temporarily take over the management of the said Murtala Muhammed International Airport Access Gate with immediate effect to determine the actual revenue generated from the Access Gate. By this letter, you are requested to vacate the premises immediately. “This is to enable the Authority take appropriate decision on the management of the Access Gate”, the Memo read. Worried over the development,  National Assembly Joint Committees on Aviation  last week invited FAAN management, non-executives and the managers of I-CUBE West Africa to a meeting in Abuja  to resolve the impasse. The National Assembly Joint Committees on Aviation summoned Captain Yadudu, and leaders of the unions over the takeover and eventual termination of I-CUBE contract. It was gathered that the joint committees headed by Senator Smart Adeyemi and Mr. Nnolim Nnaji for the House of Representatives, invited Yadudu to give  an account on why an “ongoing contract”was terminated by the unions. Also invited to the meeting were the presidents of the NUATE, ATSSSAAN and ANAP, Comrades Ben Nnabue, Illitrus Ahmadu and Kabir Gusau. Analyst and Chief executive Officer of Centurion Securities,  Group Captain John Ojikutu  (rtd) said it was wrong for the unions to have take over the facility.