CAN you take us back to when you were a group? Yeah, back to when I was in a group. I was in group called mezzosoprano which I was the lead vocal. We were five in number but the remaining four left the group due to impatience but I thank God here I am doing it alone. Was it a hard decision going solo? It was kind of rough and tough, you know. But with the glory of God, I did it and it worked. Although at the beginning I went through some challenges which I understand the industry is not an easy place to get fame but with the help of some known artistes I made it through and here I am today. 10 years down the line and you are still here, what is the secret? I’m still here; the reason I’m here is just God. Many artistes had come to the industry and they are nowhere to be found today. It’s just God that kept me here and I also thank God for the sound because if not for God and the sound I don’t know where I would be. You are not a Yoruba, why Apala as your choice of music? That is true. I’m not a Yoruba boy, I’m from Delta State (Isoko). I found Apala sound while I was growing up cause I grew up in a rural area and I also listened to more of African music, most especially Apala music. You know Apala music has really helped my musical career. If not for the sound, I don’t know what I would be doing because all I listen to is same sounds apart from few of our artistes that I don’t want to mention their names. Apala hip hop music is the way. At the beginning, did you picture yourself becoming a household name? Becoming a household name? For real, I saw this coming. When I started the journey, there was no one doing something different even up till now. Aside few artistes like Black Magic, Brymo, Asa and to mention a few still working very hard to take it higher than where they are, I do not see most artistes having anything different from the other. I also want to give a shout out to Burna Boy for promoting good music #afrobeat to the world. Were you at anytime pressured to change your style of music to blend? I’ve never been pressured to change my style at all. I just don’t think anyone can try my sound, I’m not bragging. It is what I know and the most important thing is that my fans are so loyal to me, which is very important for any artiste. What did you mean when you said you sound is not for the Nigerian music industry? I just feel like most people are not ready for good music, that’s why 70% Nigerian artistes are being carried away with the shaku shaku sound. When it’s time, I would know but regardless I’m still pushing it and I’m going to force it to them. Do you feel you can win international awards with your kind of music? Winning international awards is still on my mind. I’m so proud of my sound and international awards are for artistes that do good music. If someone like Angelique Kidjo, Burna Boy could be nominated for the Grammys, then what about my sound? What I just know is that it takes a good management to achieve international recognition or wide acceptance. The year is still early, what are your plans? The year is still early but there is no time; work starts now. By February 7th, I’ll be dropping #igboro featuring Burna Boy, after that I’m dropping two more singles before my album drops. There’s a lot on my mind this year. I pray to accomplish all that I have planned for this year by God’s grace. You have won many awards, which is the most treasured for you? Hmmm… the most treasured award for me.? Though I have won several awards, there is this award I received in 2017 Ghana Nigerian Awards as the Most Indigenous Artiste of the Year. It was a huge success. How then do you energise when performing? The energy is in me. I don’t smoke or drink to boost my energy for the  fact that my fans love me and God’s blessings alone is enough to energise and you know this is what I do for a living, so I have to do it very well there is no secret behind it. Tell us about working with Musiliu Ishola It is a nice experience working with Sir Musiliu Ishola. I would describe it as a privilege and good achievement. I met Sir Musiliu Ishola four years ago and ever since then we’ve been together like a family. He’s my dad and a legend. We still work together because he taught me a lot about music. I learnt a lot from him and that’s why I don’t joke with him. It’s hard to believe that you do not smoke nor do alcohol. Yeah, I don’t smoke or drink because it’s not my thing and I don’t think smoking or drinking is something that would work for me because I’ve never tried it before. So I don’t want to try it. My writing and singing skills are always 100% and I don’t think I’m the only artiste that doesn’t smoke or drink.