Barclays English Premier League matches have thrown up interesting signposts for growth in the game. It would take the eyes of diligent observers to pinpoint them. One of such highlights is how the league owners have ensured mechanisms to address emergencies arising from players’, coaches’, officials’, referees’ and other ancillary staff’s medical needs in the course of competitions. Not forgetting the insurance policies on related matters. These basics help the game grow tremendously since the actors know that their future and those of their family members are secured. Nothing is left to chance when any of the actors is distressed. The medical mechanisms are such that every detail is considered, from the hosts, to the organisers, and the club whose member is affected. The monitoring process, as swift as it is, ensures that what one party may have considered as little is reviewed to avoid needless deaths. It is important for us to compare what obtains in saner climes with what we have here, so it won’t come to us as a surprise if any unfortunate incident occurs at league venues (God forbid). The rusty cylinder through which oxygen was given to Felix Anyansi-Agwu at the Federal Medical Centre in Umuahia, Abia State, leaves much to be desired. In other climes, Ayansi-Agwu should have been taken to the hospital fitted with oxygen right on the scene of occurrence. It showed the absence of a medical system in the league. It showed also that Anyansi-Agwu didn’t receive any proper care on the pitch. Thank God it wasn’t an emergency. Those playing games in Umuahia are doing it at a great risk; they are on the path to death, except the domestic league organisers address this anomaly. Where was the league body’s medical team? Or is the body leaving such daunting tasks to the clubs, which don’t pay the staff? Can such an arrangement save lives?  Let’s read how it is done elsewhere. On March 17, 2012, Bolton Wanderers midfielder Fabrice Muamba suffered a cardiac arrest during the FA Cup tie against Tottenham Hotspur at White Hart Lane. The midfielder’s heart stopped beating for 78 minutes as the stadium fell silent and medical staff huddled around him, the match was abandoned. Medics spent six minutes trying to resuscitate him on the field after he fell, with no other players around him. He was rushed to the hospital and his life was saved but he had to pay the biggest price of retiring from the game he loved so much at 23. The story would’ve been different for the Kinshasa-born lad if prompt medical action wasn’t carried out on the pitch. Former Chelsea goalkeeper, Petr Cech, who suffered a fractured skull playing against Reading, said: “The medical issues and the structure has changed for the better. Fabrice still has a chance to survive because of all the equipment around the pitch. It’s a great change because sometimes it takes only a few seconds to change a whole life and a whole career.” It was miraculous that Muamba survived after collapsing for 78 minutes, but it was due to some fantastic response from the medical team. Leicester City are third on the table with plenty of ambition, having won the league diadem in the past. A fixture against second-placed Manchester City was a show stopper, one in which the Foxes could reduce the difference between both teams. Victory for the Foxes would have made the runners-up chase a fight to the finish exercise. This setting usually sets coaches thinking because victory meant different things to Rodgers and Pep Guardiola. Guardiola tacitly accepts that Liverpool may have won the league title, but he still works on the arithmetical chance of the Citizens retaining their title, if the unexpected happens. Liverpool losing the remaining 12 games. Farfetched. Football is a crazy game. Not many have forgotten early how Liverpool struggled to beat West Ham 3-2 at Anfield on Monday night. The top-of-the-table clash lived up to its reputation. For Nigeria international, Kelechi Iheanacho, it was a chance to hit back at Guardiola to show him what he has been missing. Rodgers’ decision to start Iheanacho was in sync with the Nigerian’s quest to be the match winner. It showed in the way Iheanacho went for every ball. The Citizens were scared, knowing the Nigerian could hurt them. But, like all things human, a freak goalmouth clash with Citizens’ goalkeeper meant the Nigerian had to be substituted on medical advice. Iheanacho went down inside the penalty area after a heavy collision with Manchester City goalkeeper, Ederson. Although he finished the first half of the match, he was substituted at half-time based on the advice of the medical team despite the player wanting to continue. The match was important for Leicester City but Manager Brendan Rodgers couldn’t jettison medical advice, knowing the implications of such defiance. But do we have these measures in place in the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL)? If for nothing, at least to save the lives of our players, most of whom are breadwinners for their families. Serious attention is given to medical care in sports. In fact, Sunday morning’s boxing game between two heavyweights, Wilder and Tyson Fury had potential medical issues which required immediate reaction. the first being the decision to throw in the towel, much to the consternation of Wilder, who wanted to continue the bout in spite of blood dripping from his ear, mouth and nostril. We are told that Wilder wants to sack the manager who threw the towel in. Who cares? The man took the best decision irrespective of how it suited Wilder. If he didn’t the ring referee would have done so at a later stage. In fact, Referee Kenny Bayless told ringside media men in a post interview that he was close to stopping Deontay Wilder’s fight against Tyson Fury due to the battering the American was receiving. What Bayless’ confirmation translates to is that wilder’s corner was right to have thrown in the towel. to hell with the boxer’s views. He can keep his wages. the corner has a career path to guide religiously. ‘’It was a good stoppage in my opinion because in the minute’s rest between rounds before the stoppage I went over to Deontay,’’ Bayless told SiriusXM Fight Nation. ‘’I looked him in the face and I gave him the line that we referees give the fighters to let them know, ‘Hey, you’ve gotta show me something.’’ ‘’They know that if you go back out there and you don’t show me something, then I might have to do my job and stop it. Deontay is a warrior, when I saw the towel come in out of the corner of my eyes and stopped it, Deontay’s first response was, “Why did I stop it?” ‘’Then I let him know it was his corner that stopped it, but I was very close to stopping it.’ Towards the middle of the fight, Wilder was bleeding heavily from his left ear though a ringside doctor did check and give him the all-clear to continue. It was later confirmed that his eardrum wasn’t actually bleeding, but his earlobe due to rings he wears in his ear. “I thought that the blood was coming from the inside of the ear,’ Bayless added. “At the end of the round when I went over to check, the doctor was already in the ring while I was picking up the scorecard. “The doctor looked at me and said, “He’s all right.” So at that point I left it alone.’ Wilder does have a rematch option which would result in a trilogy fight, but many are calling for Fury to fight Anthony Joshua in a blockbuster all-English heavyweight unification bout. The boxing authorities didn’t allow Wilder walk home from the where he fought. He was taken straight to the hospital. besides, he has been told not to spare until May 2020. He also won’t box until after May. Precautionary measures meant to save lives not the sport. Food for thought for Nigerian sports administrators.     