Governor Babagana Zulum has changed the style of governance through his innovative ideas and service delivery in Borno State. He has become a reference point for good governance in the country. Assistant Editor LEKE SALAUDEEN examines how the governor has been addressing the problems of Boko Haram insurgency and the needs of the people  GOVERNOR Babagana Zulum has always been in the news for his unique style of governance since his assumption of office in May 2019. The policies of his administration have turned Borno State into a model of good governance. Zulum, a professor of Agricultural Economy, has demonstrated that it is possible to do the right thing even in the face of daunting challenges. Against the background that Borno is the epicentre of Boko Haram insurgency, Zulum promised that his administration would accord priority attention to the security of lives and property, as well as food security programme. To this end, he assembled a fighting force to compliment the efforts of the army and the police in the fight against Boko Haram terrorists. He recruited thousands of hunters from all over the northern states who are familiar with the terrain and culture to support the civilian joint taskforce (JTF) in the fight. The state government is responsible for their feeding, as well the payment of a monthly allowance to boost their morale. Zulum had the courage to fault the military strategy of establishing “super camps” in designated areas in the fight against terrorism in the state. The establishment of super camps, according to him, could entail that all other smaller units in various villages and towns would collapse to form part of the super camps in some critical major local government areas. Zulum said that the new strategy could put some communities that would not be where the super camps are located in greater danger. He said: “In our thinking as laymen, not as military personnel, we thought this decision is not wise. We should ensure there is a military presence in all the locations. We are very much aware of their numerical strength but nonetheless, their absence can create a serious vacuum which informed recent attacks. However, I heard that the military is now trying to re-establish the military formations in those areas and that they should not form part of the super camps.” On the other hand, he hailed the operations of the local vigilance group, when he said: “Honestly, speaking the Civilian JTF are working but the most important thing is that they don’t have the heavy weapons that they can use to conveniently face the terrorists. So, the absence of the Nigerian military in a particular place will create a vacuum in such a way that the Civilian JTF and hunters cannot perform effectively.” In a manner that has not been seen in in recent times, Zulum came down hard on soldiers manning Damaturu-Maiduguri road for extorting money from the motorists. The governor’s convoy ran into a long queue of vehicles at one of the military checkpoints, on the way to Jakana, a community where Boko Haram had struck earlier. According to reports, the governor who had been briefed that security operatives were fleecing the people, so he alighted from his vehicle and walked straight to the checkpoint and caught the soldiers unawares. Zulum roared in anger: “This is unacceptable. How can you subject people to this kind of torture all in the name of National ID Card? I am going to report all of you in this unit. Nobody can tolerate this. Boko Haram is attacking people and you are here collecting N500, N1000 from poor travellers who don’t have a national identity card.” But one of the soldiers manning the checkpoint who tried to give a different reason as to why they were delaying the travellers made the governor angrier. The governor said: “No, this is not right. The government has not created an enabling environment for our people to get their national ID cards and you are here collecting N500, N1000 as fine for not having what the Federal Government has not provided for all.” Explaining why he chose Zulum as his successor, former Governor Kashim Shettima said: “I gave all my appointees opportunities to prove themselves and kept taking note of their capacity and selflessness. I carefully looked at the record of everyone. “I first appointed Zulum as rector of Ramat Polytechnic and after his tenure he had no house of his own and no car of his own. Then, I challenged him by appointing him the pioneer Commissioner for Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Resettlement and he did wonderfully well. He spent a total number of 156 days in Bama, sleeping in Bama with soldiers and Civilian JTF, with masons, and with labourers. “In our eight years, Zulum rarely left Borno. Despite handling billions in our reconstruction works he had nothing personal. He did not empower his kinsmen to become millionaires and multi-millionaires. He was largely responsible for our reconstruction of more than 30,000 projects in many places across the state. “One of the reasons I like Prof. Zulum is that in spite of being in control of billions of naira as commissioner, he neither bought a house nor a personal car. I can go on and on to speak eloquently about this governor that that is doing a lot to rewrite the story of Borno State. Perhaps the best gift the people could give him was his election as governor in March, last year, in recognition of selfless services to them. “So, when it came to the issue of succession, I knew that most of the people that aspired to be governor of Borno were eminently qualified but I have a preference for Zulum. Some people raised fears that Prof. Zulum is too independent minded, so he could easily go out of my control. However, I knew that I was leaving the office. I also came to terms with the reality that I could not be a former governor and a ‘governor’ at the same time. I needed someone who could surpass my achievement; someone that is head and shoulders above me in terms of intellect, in terms of capacity and in terms of indefatigability. I settled for Zulum for the collective good of the people of Borno State and it is one of the decisions I most cherish and glad to have made for Borno. I believe posterity will in the fullness of time vindicate me for doing or passing every judgment on Prof. Zulum.” On the pervasive lack of good governance in the country, Zulum said the unwillingness of persons in the corridors of power to tell leaders truth about issues and the unwillingness of leaders themselves to hear the truth are some of the major problems confronting leadership in Nigeria. The governor, who delivered a lecture at the National Defence College in Abuja, told his audience that included senior military officers and policymakers within and outside Nigeria that saying the truth is a problem in Nigeria. Zulum said: “A strategic leader must be a strategic listener and reader. A strategic thinker must also be a strategic learner. A strategic leader must be willing to hear the truth and to learn. However, telling the truth and accepting the truth has been our major problems in Nigeria. Some people will never tell you the truth when you are in power and honestly, many of us in power also do not want to hear the truth; we prefer to be told what we like to hear and that is a serious deficit in strategic leadership.” The governor is not afraid of telling the truth no matter whose horse is gored.  Zulum has debunked the Federal Government’s claim that Boko Haram had been technically defeated and they had been driven out completely from Borno and Yobe states. Zulum said three local government areas are still occupied by the terrorists. It takes courage for a governor to confront federal principalities and power on an issue that bother on the security and wellbeing of the people. Zulum’s courage of putting the record straight is significant for many reasons: He is a member of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). He could have kept mute to avoid contradicting the party’s position. The  Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai and the National Security Adviser (NSA) Major General Muhammed Babagana Monguno are indigenes of Borno State. Zulum was not afraid of the consequences of political reprisals from any of these powerful forces. Instead, he defended the interest of his people. On why insurgency persists in Northeast, Governor Zulum said the increasing trust deficit between the military and civil authorities and lack of strategic planning is partly responsible. He added that corruption and displacements were other reasons for the lingering war against insurgency in the region. He added: “You need to have what it takes to end a war, right ammunition, equipment. The major problem we have now is the increasing trust deficit between the military and the civil authorities. It is a matter of great concern to all and there is a need for us to bridge the trust deficit. As long as the people are not resettled back to their communities, the war will not end, because people need to go back to their normal businesses.”  In his relentless efforts of rebuilding ravaged communities destroyed by insurgency, Zulum has visited most of the affected areas for on the spot assessment. He spends many days in a week outside Maiduguri, the state capital, to commiserate with the victims of Boko Haram attacks and supervise the distribution of food and non-food items to cushion the effect of terrorist attacks. In the process, he holds interactive sessions with the people of the communities and preaches to them the gospel of peaceful co-existence. A peasant farmer whose farm products were looted by Boko Haram, Malam Bukar Baba Gana hailed Zulum for finding time to visit his remote village which had never hosted a governor before. To avert the diversion of food items to Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in Borno State, the governor had introduced the administration oath on officials in charge of distribution. Zulum, after swearing by the Holy Qur’an will direct officials of the National Emergency Management (NEMA), State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), humanitarian workers and displaced persons to do so. The modus operandi is in Zulum’s presence, a copy of the Qur’an will be raised the traditional way seeking the wrath of God against the governor, humanitarian workers, NEMA, SEMA and other government officials, who divert food and other relief materials meant for the welfare of displaced persons. Until the introduction of the oath, humanitarian workers have had to contend with problems of food vending by hundreds of displaced persons who collected multiple allocations. There were also allegations of dubious collaborations between some humanitarian workers and displaced persons. Many of the displaced after collecting their rations would re-join the queue to collect the second time. This dubious activity has reduced, according to reports, following the introduction of oath-taking with Qur’an. Zulum believes addressing the problem of mass unemployment is a panacea in tackling some of the root causes of Boko Haram insurgency in which some fighters were attracted through financial inducements. He said that security and youth empowerment are critical in his twin approach to the insurgency. According to him, Borno State has entered into an agreement with the National Directorate of Employment (NDE) to explore an avenue through which the state can benefit, by creating jobs for its teeming unemployed youths. The governor emphasised: “Our interface with the National Directorate of Employment will open a vista of opportunities for us to see how genuinely we can train our youth to have sources of livelihood and to be beneficial to the society.” As part of his agenda for reducing unemployment, the governor has laid the foundation for the construction of 800-capacity modern vocational training centre that will offer courses on 14 different trades. The centre is expected to be completed before May 29, 2020. Unexpectedly, the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Borno State chapter has hailed Zulum for his performance as governor of Borno. The party said it was highly impressed with Governor Zulum’s handling of security and general performance. Borno State PDP Chairman, Usman Badeiri said: “It took us eight months to come to terms with what we consider as an obligatory need for us to speak about the kind of governor Borno is very lucky to have. We acknowledge that Governor Zulum has been extremely supportive of the fight against Boko Haram, by not only providing the necessary tools to the established armed forces, but to equally critical volunteers. “Zulum has regularly been on a humanitarian and developmental tour of most communities across the 27 local government areas, including tough and high-risk terrains. He passes the night with our people to show leadership by example and in all visits to these communities, he strengthens community security with patrol vehicles, recruitment of more hunters and civilian JTF with an increase in monthly allowances. In all his visits, the governor kick-starts, monitors or commissions numerous projects.” The opposition leader said the PDP started seeing some gains back in September 2019 when Zulum marked 100 days in office.  Badeiri said: “In Zulum’s first 100 days, he delivered 120 projects, some of which major ones are in the healthcare sector, public schools, water etc. Beyond 100 days, he has laid the foundation for an estate of 500 houses, and the first flyover in the northeast coming to live in Maiduguri. Zulum has never delayed payment of workers’ salaries and has turned out to be one of the governors to implement the minimum wage.” Zulum came from a humble beginning. He rose from a lowly position of a peasant to become a university professor and governor of Borno State. He once told the story of his struggle in life: “From my humble background, I trekked seven kilometres daily to school in Mafa town, Mafa Local Government of Borno State and covered the same distance to help my father, a peasant farmer in his farm. I sponsored my education in secondary school and same for my National Diploma. “I secured admission at the University of Maiduguri to read Agriculture. Since I couldn’t afford the school fees, feeding and accommodation fees, I worked as a taxi driver, as well as farm produce driver to make ends meet. I extended my commercial driving to Lagos, precisely at Alaba Rago to raise tuition fees for my MSc programme, three weeks after the resumption. I returned to UNIMAID for my PhD programme and got employed after and moved through the ranks as a lecturer to become a professor in 2014.” 