 LAGOS State Deputy Governor Dr. Kadri Obafemi Hamzat on Wednesday urged tiers of government to work with monarchs in order to achieve peace, stability and economic development. He said traditional rulers are very important in the promotion of a peaceful co-existence among communities, national development and growth. Hamzat spoke at a symposium organised to commemorate the 20th Coronation Anniversary of the Oloja of Epe, Oba Kamorudeen Ishola Animashaun. He said traditional rulers played useful roles in brokering peace between the people and the state, enhancing national identity, resolving minor conflicts and providing institutional safety. The deputy governor said: “Traditional rulers are the embodiment of our cultural ethos and values. They seek the well-being of residents and set the rules of engagement.” Noting that monarchs are still highly respected in many communities and have considerable political and economic influence, Dr. Hamzat said they must, therefore, form a partnership that allows the government to see the desires of the people. He added that traditional rulers must ensure law and order is maintained in their communities, as they possess the moral standards and authority that mitigate violence and danger, which means they can hold communities together. The deputy governor noted that tradition should be held in high esteem by everyone. He said caring for one another involved all the citizens in the community. Dr. Hamzat advised all to seek the good of the community where they lived, saying: “Together we must evolve a common identity.” Noting that the Yoruba language is no longer spoken by many children, the deputy governor enjoined parents to improve on their children’s learning and speaking of the language so that the moral values contained can be imbibed. In a lecture titled: “The role of Obas in National and Local Economic Development”, the keynote speaker, Prof. Oladele Caleb Orimogunje said that the development of every community in all aspects was paramount to the traditional rulers in Yorubaland.   