A Lagos High Court sitting in Igbosere Monday sentenced a businessman, Jideofor Franklin Akpan, to ten years imprisonment over N30 million fraud. Justice Kudirat Jose also ordered the convict’s company, International Maritime and Shipping Limited, to restitution to the tune of N10 million. The convict and his company, were arraigned before the court sometimes in 2015 on a five count- charge of conspiracy, obtaining under false pretense, unlawful conversion and issuance of dud cheques by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) The offences according to the anti-graft agency are contrary to sections 1 (2) and (3) of the Advance Fee Fraud and other Fraud Related Offences Act No. 14 of 2006. And Section 1(1) of the Dishonoured Cheque (offences) Act, Cap. D11, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004. The offences also contravener sections 278 (1) (b) and 285 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. The EFCC in a charge marked ID/1280c/2015, stated that the convict had on May 30, 2014, fraudulently obtained N30 million, from one Mrs. Ifeoma Nowa-Omoregbe, the Chief Executive Officer of GDPC Ventures Nigeria Limited, through his company, International Maritime and Shipping Limited, on false pretense that the said sum would be used to buy Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) popularly called petrol. The EFCC stated that the convict had promised to refund the said sum to Mrs. Nowa-Omoregbe, upon complete utilization with additional N10 million but failed to do so. He was also accused of issuing four cheques in the sum of N10 million each, to the victim but were rejected due to insufficient of funds in his accounts with Standard Chartered Bank. The convict had pleaded not guilty to the charges and was admitted to bail by the court. During the trial, the prosecution called six witnesses, including victim of the fraud, Mrs. Ifeaoma Nowa-Omoregbe, the Investigation Police Officer (IPO) , and tendered several documentary evidence which were admitted as exhibit by the court. The convict solely testified for himself. Delivering judgment in the matter Justice Jose acquitted and discharged the convict of the charges of issuance of dud cheques. She however, convicted him of the charges of obtaining under false pretense and dishonest and unlawful conversion of the said sum of N30 million. Consequently, Justice Jose sentenced him to five years each on the two counts and fined the convict’s company of the sum of N5 million also on each of the counts. The judge however stated that the jail terms are to run concurrently.