 Following the outbreak of the coronavirus epidemic and its first recorded case in Lagos, the Akwa Ibom State Government says it has intensified measures to prevent the killer disease from entering the state. The state’s Commissioner for Health, Dr. Dominic Ukpong, told our correspondent that the government has put in place all necessary preventive and protective safeguards to ensure that no resident of the state is infected with coronavirus. According to Ukpong, a high-powered Infectious Disease Control and Prevention Committee comprising of 80 members had already been set up during the recent outbreak of Lassa fever. He said the committee which has other subcommittees is charged with the responsibility of ensuring timely checks and prevention of infectious diseases from the state, adding that the committees’ assignments are wide ranging. He said with the first case of coronavirus in Lagos Thursday, the committee has been re-energised and mobilised to look into ways and means of carrying out its assignment. The health commissioner disclosed that the government had procured and supplied special protective equipment to 44 hospitals in the state, including comprehensive health centres, general hospitals and cottage hospitals, among others, across the 31 local government areas of the state. Ukpong said the ministry had in collaboration with Infection Disease Prevention and Control Committee trained health personnel, namely doctors, pharmacists, laboratory scientists, among others, on the disease with regards to detection and prevention. “The government is embarking on an extensive and intensive awareness, sensitization and enlightenment campaigns across every nook and cranny of the state on the coronavirus epidemic. “All entry routes into the state, especially our local airport, are also being closely monitored by our team of trained medical personnel so that we arrest any threat before it gets into the state. “We have been having series of meetings with health officials. The State House of Assembly Committee on Health has also been briefed and ideas and expertise are being cultivated and harnessed to ensure that the coronavirus disease does not affect anyone in the state. The health commissioner stated that a system for the taking and transfer of blood samples of suspected infected persons has been procured. He assured that the state government would in addition to its current efforts seek better ways of preventing and combating the disease.  