Connect with yourself. Going through a big loss or change can leave you feeling a little unsure of yourself and who you are. You can do this by connecting to your body through exercise, spending time in nature, or connecting with your spiritual and philosophical beliefs. Things to keep in mind As you navigate the process of healing a broken heart, it’s helpful to have realistic expectations about the process. From pop songs to rom-coms, society can give a warped view of what heartbreak actually entails. Here are a few things to keep in the back of your mind. Your experience is valid The death of a loved one is the more overt form of grief, Palumbo explains, but covert grief can look like the loss of a friendship or relationship. Or maybe you’re starting a new phase of your life by changing careers or becoming an empty nester. Whatever it is, it’s important to validate your grief. This simply means recognizing the impact it’s had on your life. It’s not a competition It’s natural to compare your situation to that of others, but heartbreak and grieving aren’t a competition. Just because it’s the loss of a friendship and not the death of a friend doesn’t mean the process isn’t the same,. “You’re relearning how to live in a world without an important relationship you once had.” There’s no expiration date Grief is not the same for everyone and it has no timetable. Avoid statements like “I should be moving on by now,” and give yourself all of the time you need to heal. You can’t avoid it As hard as it might feel, you have to move through it. The more you put off dealing with painful emotions, the longer it will take for you to start feeling better. Expect the unexpected As your grief evolves, so will the intensity and frequency of heartbreak. At times it will feel like soft waves that come and go. But some days, it might feel like an uncontrollable jolt of emotion. Try not to judge how your emotions manifest. You’ll have periods of happiness Remember that it’s okay to fully experience moments of joy as you grieve. Spend part of each day focusing on the present moment, and allow yourself to embrace the good things in life. If you’re dealing with the loss of a loved one, this might bring up some feelings of guilt. But experiencing joy and happiness is crucial to moving forward. And forcing yourself to stay in a negative state of mind won’t change the situation. It’s okay to not be okay A profound loss, like the death of a loved one, is going to look vastly different from a job rejection,. “In both cases, it’s imperative to allow yourself to feel what you’re feeling and remember that it’s okay not to be okay.” Even if you’re doing everything you can to work through your heartbreak, you’ll probably still have off days. Take them as they come and try again tomorrow. Seek self-acceptance Don’t expect your suffering to go away sooner than when it’s ready. Try to accept your new reality and understand that your grief will take some time to heal. Recommended reading When you’re dealing with heartbreak, books can be both a distraction and a healing tool. They don’t have to be big self-help books, either. Personal accounts of how others have lived through grief can be just as powerful. I wish you all the best.