 When the Delta State government, led by Ifeanyi Okowa moved to take down the proposed and abandoned Warri Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) lanes built by his predecessor on the Warri/Effurun/Sapele Road in Warri South and Uvwie local governments, motorists, commuters and business owners were happy as they said the gesture was a welcome development. Reports from many quarters indicated that the N6 billion BRT project was unsuitable for the area. Stakeholders said the road was “not wide enough” for such a project, stating that it caused daily traffic congestion on the major road and worse, accidents. Some others argued that it was “not a bad concept”. However, for the then governor, Dr Emmanuel Uduaghan, the 12.55 kilometres road project was to ease traffic flow for about 47,000 Deltans plying the ever-busy route daily, just like the case of the Lagos State BRT. Unfortunately, the project never saw the light of day. The beautifully-built bus stops, with waiting areas for prospective passengers soon turned into abodes for hoodlums, mentally challenged people and selling spots for roadside traders. Gradually, the roofs and other parts of the bus stops fell apart, some were vandalised and probably stolen, leaving only the concrete parts. Nearly two years ago, bulldozers and other heavy duty construction vehicles lined the Effurun/Sapele Road. First, they dismantled what was left of the BRT project, created a single median, and then commenced digging of the extreme parts of the road. The Nation checks revealed that the state government had approved the expansion of the road after rising from an Executive Council meeting in November, 2015. Buildings close to the road had to give way for a new road project. Drains were built on some parts. Road users and business people expressed joy at the development. Sadly, this joy again, was short-lived as the dug areas, about three metres wide on both sides of some sections of the road, were abandoned. Early February, works again began on the route. Engineers were seen working on the ditched areas. Business owners between the Enerhen Junction and Urhobo College axis of the Effurun/Sapele Road are rejoicing over the resumed construction which was at a standstill for almost two years. The condition reportedly resulted in various accidents, especially during the rainy season, with tricycles and cars falling into the wide ditch. “If you were here during the rainy season, the sight was terrible. We just had stagnant water filled with dirt. Vehicles trying to park on the side of the road or reverse will just fall into the ditch. But at a point, road users got used to it. It is a good thing that government has restarted building. Our appeal is that the road should be completed before the rains come,” a businessman, who identified himself as Mr. Princewill, said. A shoe seller, who preferred to be anonymous, said: “We deserve something good. Besides, this is a major part of the city. Imagine the eyesore to visitors, then. But I am glad that work has started again. It will boost our businesses too.” For commercial drivers and other motorists, the expectation is no different. Not only will incessant gridlock become a thing of the past, more time and money will also be saved at the.  Ufuoma Erherada, a commercial tricycle rider recalled the challenges that the abandoned expansion of the road and even the previous BRT lane project caused commuters. “We prefer this one. That BRT was causing accidents. People were falling into it. Now that they have resumed work on it, we hope they don’t run away as they did the last time. They should endeavour to finish it. “The challenges we had when the place was abandoned was mainly traffic congestion. We also had vehicles falling into those ditches. Especially, when trying to make U-turns, keke, cars and mostly trailers will just fall into those ditches. That will now cause traffic because we would have to start driving one way,” Erherada said. Another businessman who deals in electrical wares close to Jakpa Junction section of the road, Mr. Ugonna Uzoamaka, stated: “During the past administration, they made BRT lanes. So, customers that have cars could not park because there was no parking space. But when Governor Okowa assumed duty, they had to remove the lanes. So, there could be space. Now, they dug this thing for over a year now, close to two years, this March 28 will make it two years that they dug this ditch. Since then, especially during the rainy season, people are afraid to cross the bridge and buy things from us. Some will say, ‘please, I will fall into the water’. “If they can finish the construction of the road, there will be enough space to park vehicles and people will not be afraid to cross the bridge because it will not be here again. “I believe that will help our businesses. During that rainy season, business was very bad. Old men and women were afraid of crossing the bridge. As Christians, we put our hope in God, because he said, he will make a way where there is no way. That was how we managed our affairs then. I’m pleading with the government to reconstruct the road before another rainy season sets in.” Efforts to get the Commissioner of Works, Mr. James Augoye, to comments on the matter were unsuccessful, as he did not pick his calls when contacted on his phone line, even as he did not reply to short message service (SMS) sent to his phone. The case was no different with the Commissioner for Information, Mr. Charles Aniagwu and the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Olisa Ifeajika. When The Nation visited the site, one of the workers who spoke in confidence stated that the state government was committed to completing the project before the next rainy season. “The state government is desirous to deliver this project in no distant time. Before the rains come, we will deliver,” he said. He said that the project was stalled for nearly two years due to some issues. “Initially, we had issues. But this time round, the government and the contractor handling the project have settled all that. We will be home and dry. At the end, we will have two lanes on both sides of the road and convenient parking spaces for vehicles,” he stated. Replying questions on the specific areas to be covered by the project, considering one of the neglected BRT spots at Enerhen Junction area, as well as the drains which have become stagnant water and wastes dump sites, the source explained that the contract covers “5.4 kilometers stretch of the road. The contract is all encompassing, but let us delivers this part first. We have worked on a part of the Enerhen Junction. We will go back there. When we are through with the pavements, we will work on the drains.”