The Forum of Anioma Traditional Rulers of Delta North Senatorial District of Delta State has given arms-bearing herdsmen an ultimatum to vacate their land. The traditional rulers also directed communities in the senatorial district to reactivate all community based security networks to curtail activities of killer herdsmen. The royal fathers said the order to vacate the region was for the ‘killer herdsmen’s interest. The royal fathers made this known in a communiqué following a security meeting which was held over the weekend at Owa community, Ika North East local government area. The State Chairman of Delta State Forum of Traditional Rulers, HRM Efeizomor ll, Obi of Owa, decried the incessant attacks on communities in area. The meeting was attended by critical stakeholders, including the Dein of Agbor, HRM Benjamin Ikenchukwu Keagborekuzi 1, traditional rulers, local government chairmen, community leaders, president generals, youth leaders and vigilante groups from the district. Efeizomor ll decried the activities of arm bearing herdsmen who have turned various communities into a theatre of war. They condemned the unprovoked attacks on rural dwellers and wanton destruction of farmlands. According to them, the traditional security architecture has failed in providing protection for Nigerians and called on all to rise to the occasion by ensuring that everybody was protected from unwarranted attacks. They expressed concern over the poor handling of the security situation by the federal government and advocated for immediate action to address the deteriorating situation in the country. They further warned that the peaceful disposition of the people should not be taken as act of cowardice, warning that any further attack on any part of Delta North will not be tolerated. The monarchs called on the people to be extra vigilant and be more conscious of their security, saying that there was need to commence documentation of all commercial motorcyclists in urban and rural centres in the district because of their alleged roles in criminality.