DEAR Aunty Temilolu, l am Busayo, a youth corps member in Lagos. I read one of your articles. You said girls, who wish to have successful marriages, should stay away from premarital sex. Now l ask, does doing so guarantee success in a marriage? This is because l know of five girls then when l was in secondary school, who lived fast lives with guys/men and today, all five are married with kids, but another two who kept away from men and were very religious, are having issues with conception in their marriages. How about that ma, because l can’t figure it out? Busayo, L.agos  Dearest Busola, To start with, if you believe in God but still doubt the power of obedience to His commands and an undefiled marriage bed, you may need to change your place of worship! It is a proven fact that premarital sex more often than not results in making a wrong choice of spouse! Also, because millions are thriving and succeeding in sin doesn’t mean your destiny can afford to do so. What your friend’s destiny can endure could be what could destroy yours! Now, can you imagine if biblical Joseph or Esther had been tempted to use their flesh to get some temporary comfort when they really needed it, would they have fulfilled God’s glorious purpose for them? Besides, sexual purity isn’t the only guarantee for a successful marriage but believe me it does go a very long way in helping you settle with the right person! At the same time, I have seen virgins who married monsters in human form-the enemies of their destinies so to say! For your friends who are yet to conceive, it may not be God’s time and it may be as a result satanic attacks/foundational problems! If you are charting your life according to what’s acceptable in the world and your friends’ lifestyle and not according to God’s standards, believe me, you may not fulfill your destiny! What does the world or stupid, bad devil have to offer anyone? DON’T BE DECEIVED MY DEAR! It would be most tragic for you to trade your future peace of mind and stability for a sinful life of comfort and luxury which you could actually avail yourself if you worked on yourself enough! Besides, what in the world happened to delaying gratification? On the other hand, what joy can anyone derive from sleeping with every Tom, Dick and Harry, getting dumped after being loaded with multiple and even destructive strange spirits? Do you think all can be well with such a destiny? Do you even know the type of star you carry? Do you know the devil- the enemy of your shining could ensure you live a frustrated life by ensuring you fall into the trap of having sexual intercourse with just one man who appears like a knight-in-shining armor? Hmm…May God open your eyes! My darling, precious, glorious, dignified, world-famous and heavenly-celebrated Nigerian sisters, Your beliefs and values would determine the choices you make and the quality of your entire life and as you lay your bed so you lie on it! There are so many out there including some of your parents having mid-life crisis fighting the battles of their life in great frustration and even dragging their children into it because of the unpalatable choices they made in their youth. A lot of families are dysfunctional and a lot of youth are emotionally unstable and already treading on unfruitful and ruinous paths just because either of their parents could not bridle their passion and made the wrong choice of a partner whom they can’t raise a decent family with. However, I can tell you no one is a mistake! God certainly knows of every single destiny here on earth and has made us for signs and wonders. Isaiah 8:18. So, it’s left for you to make the most of this promise and not hand over your life to the devil through ungodly sex! Yes! Every form of ungodly sex gives the devil the reins of your life! I must warn you that surrounding all the glamour and enviable lifestyle you see being flaunted out there is a highly-tempestuous world which could flip over any unsuspecting person at anytime. But guess what? Your most potent power against such an onslaught and not being swept away by the tide is activating the power of God with your sexual purity now that you are young, vibrant and energetic enough to fight your way through and become unshakable!  I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO Instagram @ Okeowo Temilolu.