Our Reporter Two of the common causes of road traffic crashes are wrong positioning of vehicles in motion and lane indiscipline. Drivers must position their vehicles in the middle of their lanes whether there are lane markings or not. Drivers are to avoid lane weaving which is confusing and unsafe. Every driver must know and practise the MSM/PSL routine to ensure safety on the roads. I will briefly mention the key points about vehicle positioning and lane discipline. Drivers should endeavour to keep to the right lane for the ease of overtaking on the left lane. Stay clear of parked vehicles and other obstructions. Drivers should always employ the hazard perception techniques. Move in the middle of your lane to allow adequate lateral space on the right and left sides. Always obey the following distance rule in all environments. Tailgating is very common in Nigeria and this is the main factor responsible for rear-end collision and multiple crashes. Avoid weaving in and out between vehicles. This is a result of impatience and haste. Always plan your journey ahead and set out early to avoid hasty or aggressive driving which do fuel driver errors.  Position your vehicle correctly and communicate appropriately for the direction you intend to take. Obey the road markings particularly the lane markings, dedicated or priority bus lanes, one way roads, right and left lane turn arrows, markings when approaching roundabouts, Y-junctions, T-junctions, Cross – roads, sharp bends, bridges, etc. Select the correct lanes in good time and use the MSM/PSL routine to ensure safe lane change or overtaking. Components of the MSM/PSL Routine:  Before you change lane or overtake any vehicle in front of you, always follow the steps below to ensure safety: Mirror – Look into the mirror to check the position and speed of the vehicles behind you. Also check your blind spot. Signal: Use the vehicle’s turn indicator and when necessary, your hand signal to show your intention to change lane while you also slow down. Manoeuvre: Safely change your speed or position.While manoeuvring, make sure your vehicle is in the correct position for the manoeuvre and move safely in good time. Make sure the vehicle move at the appropriate speed without violating the legal speed limit and the common sense speed limit. Make sure you are looking at the big picture while manoeuvring. These guidelines, when followed, will ensure safe driving in all situations. Expect more information about road hazards next week. 