As Nigeria in a pre-creation stage, just as the earth “was without form, and void” at the beginning of time? Perhaps high-minders or idealists would say of course; what with the violence and brigandage that is now a daily occurence in our country. But even the optimists are beginning to doubt the grounds of their optimism, with the carnage going on across the country. Now kidnappers after collecting huge ransoms, go ahead to decapitate their victims, as happened recently to Michael Nnadi, a Seminarian at Good Shepherd Major Seminary, Kaukau, Kaduna. For reasons we may never be able to fathom, the Kaduna kidnappers are a special bread. They delight in killing even when huge ransoms have been paid. The other time they took a mother and her two kids, murdered the mother, and released the motherless babies, after collecting ransoms from the traumatised medical doctor, husband and father. So is Nigeria, at the beginning of creation, when according to the Holy Bible, “darkness was on the face of the deep?” Many would argue that literally and figuratively, Nigeria is in darkness. With the national grid, failing intermittently, electricity has become scarcer than essential commodity, as experienced during President Muhammadu Buhari’s first incarnation. Where it possible, Nigerians would have been forced to queue up for a ration of electricity, as in the days of yore. The gospel reading, Matthew 5:13-16, last Sunday in Catholic Churches was particularly instructive, as it talked about the importance of light. Jesus called His disciples, the light of the world, urging them to give “light to all in the world.” Rev Fr. Melvis Maiyaki, who preached at a Mass yours sincerely attended used the excitement that electric light brings, to illustrate the qualities Jesus envisages for His disciples. Perhaps, Nigeria needs leaders who can bring light to our blighted country. Without light, poverty endures. The barber idles away, even as the pepper grinder turns a loafer. Darkness entrenches laziness. But the country is too poor to promote laziness. So, like Jesus’s disciples, let the light so shine that Nigerians can have the opportunity to do good works and earn decent living. When federal government promotes the ease of doing business, to attract businesses, the starting point should be regular power supply. Without regular electricity, doing business would never be easy. This is particularly so for small scale enterprises, which cannot afford private power generation schemes. The crisis of unemployment would dramatically come down, if there is regular electricity supply. So let there be light, if we hope to put the youths roaming the country to work. Even the touted agricultural revolution may come to nought if the farm produce cannot be processed further. While awaiting the big companies to convert tomatoes to puree, families should be able to boil theirs and store them in the freezers for months. Small scale companies would also be able to convert yams and other tubers to flour, and sell. Cooperatives would be able to buy meats and fish in big quantities and members will buy at cheaper rates and store in chillers. Water, soft drink and beer sellers would make bigger sales, even pepper soup joints would boom with light. Night crawlers would operate more smoothly. Regular power supply would make Nigeria the preferred destination for investment in West Africa or even Africa. She will be “a city set on a hill (which) cannot be hid.” China became a world economic power because of cheap labour and availability of modern factors of production, like electricity. No manufacturing company would rate Nigeria a preferred destination, if electricity is scarce, even though she has the advantage of cheap labour workforce. But to take full advantage of the cheap labour, electricity has to be available. Going forward it is strange that the Buhari presidency which has shown courage in fighting other endemic national problems like corruption is shying away from confronting the menace of electricity challenge in our country. I dare postulate that the challenge posed by poor electricity supply in Nigeria, is as debilitating as the impact of corruption on our national life, if not more. After all, corruption feeds on poverty, and the greatest contributor to poverty in modern times is arguably the lack of electricity. With electricity in rural communities, learning is cheaply available. A child could drink from the fountains of the greatest teachers on earth through the use of tablets. He or she could read the most impactful books, and ask questions and get answers like the privileged in cities. Education becomes cheap if there is regular supply of electricity. The same with food. Without regular electricity, the school feeding programme cannot be sustained in the long run, because the food vendors would regularly run at a loss, if they have to keep buying a day’s need daily. Of course an educated and well developed child, is a panacea against corruption. As Apostle Matthew said: “Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven.” So electricity would reduce political corruption and financial corruption. For instance, which well-educated child would agree to be a political thug? That is why Governor Ganduje of Kano is educating the Almajiris. Electricity could make it easier Education is also a liberator. It is an antidote to fanaticism, one of the modern scourges of our country. If it doesn’t cure the purveyor, it will cure the receiver of the evil of fanatical believes. With information at the touch of bottom, information would damper fanatical tell tales. Electricity will also help disseminate information on mass media, and that would help improve the quality of health care. Medical consultation on video is helping to save lives. Even the campaign against Lassa and Coronavirus needs electricity to spread and save lives. The gains of regular supply of electricity is immeasurable, so let there be light. Indeed, Genesis 1: 4 says: “And God saw the light, that it was good; and God divided the light from the darkness.” What is keeping Nigerian leaders from seeing that the light is good? Or better still, why has Nigerians leaders refused to give what is good to the people? After all, many of them budget huge sums from our common patrimony to ensure constant supply of electricity to their homes and offices. There is an urgent need to revisit the power privatisation programme of the past regime, so that those with the technical know-how could get in to give Nigerians light. Also, there is no sane reason why we should have only one national grid. So, let there be light in the minds of those who could give Nigerians light.