By Adegunle Olugbamila  The usual excitement that characterises the yearly merit award of Education District I, Agege was not left out this year. The event, 13th in the series, which held at the Agege Stadium indoor hall, saw workers across various cadres – principal, vice principals, head of departments, district officers, guards, HoDs, drivers, cleaners – being recognised for their outstanding performances and going home with certificates and mouthwatering prizes. Employees, resplendent in their various attires, were in attendance not only to felicitate with their colleagues who won, but to also draw inspiration from them. One of the shining lights among the awardees was the Principal of Vetland Senior Grammar School, Mrs Taiwo Abiola Eliazbeth, who won the district’s Best Principal in the senior category. Many of Abiola’s colleagues were not surprised at the mention of this ‘workaholic’. Abiola once clinched the award in the previous edition, albeit in the Junior category and as the then Principal of Ijaiye Ojokoro Junior High School, before her redeployment. Abiola told The Nation that hardwork and passion to drive development have always been her watchword. “Where ever and whatever I find myself doing, I do it well.  I spent my personal resources to build a podium for our morning assembly. I facilitated the painting for the entire three buildings in the school. I also built a geographical garden and revived some dead projects,” she said while sharing her testimony. Besides, Abiola, who has barely spent 13 months in the school, said with the support of other teachers, parents, the old students and government, the model school under her watch, has to her credit, beautiful ambience, while her pupils dwarfed their contemporaries in  state and national awards. “During the PZ 2019 competition, we emerged the best 13 in the entire Southwest. In the same year, Vetland also produced the best student in NIFEST 2019. We were the only school that won the Interwitch Spak2.0 international contest. We are also the only public school that won the Cowbellpedia competition in Chemistry and came second in national cowbelpedia competition.”  Another awardee and Principal, Government Junior College Agege Mrs Bolanle Olusola Alamu, who emerged the Best Principal in the junior category, attributed her feat to passion for teaching and the desire to improve herself in line with 21st century challenges. “I love teaching. Besides, I aspire to be the 21st century compliant. I try to be creative and ensure  I go out of my way  to be an achiever. “No nation grows beyond her level of education. If you want the nation to develop, we must put in extra efforts to develop these children especially from basic up to secondary level.This is the secret to my dedication.” Earlier, the District’s Tutor-General/Permanent Secretary, Mrs Titilayo Solarin, and her predecessor Dr Oluwafolayimika Ayandele, described the District I as a trailblazer,  adding that it owes her success to dedication by stakeholdesr at the district. “We have dedicated teachers, brilliant students and supportive non-teaching staff,” said Solarin. “We have people who are passionate about their work; and when you have that, there is no way you will not excel. Also, parents have been quite supportive. Anytime we call on them, they are ready to support. “We do this (award) to encourage them and let them know that the district and Lagos State government appreciate what they are doing. “We also do this to challenge those who are yet to receive such awards so that they know that for every work you do, there is a reward for it. ‘’Every year, there has always been great improvement at the following edition.Teachers, principals and other cadres all strive to ensure they win considering the array of gifts winners receive,”   Solarin concluded. 