 The Abia State Command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) on Monday, at the Command Headquarters in Umuahia, the State capital, paraded a suspected crude oil vandal identified as Philip Iroha, aged 42years. The suspect, The Nation gathered is the conductor to an unmarked MAN Diesel truck that was used for crude oil theft. Iroha was said to have been arrested after the driver of his vehicle and owner of the goods escaped. Speaking to journalists during the parade of the suspect, the state Commandant of the Corps, Barr. Nnamdi Nwannukwu disclosed that Iroha was arrested for his alleged involvement in oil pipelines vandalism and illegal dealing on petroleum products suspected to be crude oil. The NSCDC Abia State Boss also disclosed that another unmarked Mack truck laden with crude oil was recovered by the command personnel after the driver of the said truck and other occupants on sighting NSCDC personnel abandoned their truck and flee. According to Nwannukwu, the recovered vehicles have 35,000 and 6,000 liters of products suspected to be Crude Oil respectively. “The truck was stationed at Imo Gate Bridge in Ukwa West Local Government Area of the state with the hose connected to a pipeline near the bridge and on sighting men of the Command’s anti-vandalism on patrol in the area, the vandals took to their heels, abandoning the truck with no registration number. “From preliminary investigation, the truck doesn’t have the license to deal with petroleum products. The said truck doesn’t have a haulage permit that allows it to be used to convey petroleum products. The product itself doesn’t have any purchase receipt. “At the end of the investigation, the suspect will be charged to a court of competent jurisdiction for diligent prosecution. “The harm of illegal products to our economy cannot be overemphasized. A lot of money that could have been used for the good of the state and the country has gone the drains because of the activities of these vandals,” said Abia NSCDC Commandant. Nwannukwu seized the opportunity to advise parents to warn their wards to desist from acts of vandalism of petroleum pipelines and other critical national assets which constitutes economic sabotage against the nation or be prepared to face the full wrath of the law. The suspect, Iroha, when interviewed denied knowledge of the content of the vehicle, stating that he got to know the content after he was arrested by NSCDC officials. He said that he was apprehended while they were fixing their vehicle which broke down on the road in Aba, the commercial nerve of the state and were taken down to Umuahia, at the Command’s headquarters. According to Iroha, the driver and the owner of the said crude oil, whose names he didn’t disclose, were arrested together with him, but they later ran away. 