 IT was commendation galore on Saturday for the Owan West Chairman, Hon. Frank Ilaboya, who gave out free JAMB forms for 65 indigent students in Owan West. The occasion was the annual Frank Ilaboya JAMB Assistance Scheme (FIJAS), Season Four, held at the campaign office of the council boss. The All Progressives Congress (APC) Leader in Owan West, Sir Peter Eguaboi, while applauding the scheme, said, “I am very impressed with what Hon. Ilaboya is doing in our local government. He deserves all the commendation for his laudable empowerment programmes. He has taken governance to a new and innovative level and I think he deserves all the commendation.” In his remarks, the Ward 5 Leader of the party, Deacon Promise Agbede, said what Ilaboya has been doing in the area of education is worthy of praise. “Hon Ilaboya has opened our eyes to things we never thought was possible.  The excitement in the faces of parents and the beneficiaries tell the story of his goodness. My prayer is that God will continue to take him higher and higher in Jesus Name.” The Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Political Matters, Hon. Zibiri Marvellous, who witnessed the event, just as he did last year, said he was not surprised with the creative and innovative ways Hon. Ilaboya is running the council. Marvellous further admonished the beneficiaries to be good ambassadors in order to encourage the sponsor to do more. The Acting Secretary of the Local Government Education Authority, Mr. Peter Ilegar, who was also part of the ceremony, said he was very impressed with the FIJAS Scheme. “Hon Ilaboya has always attached so much importance to education in the local government, he said A community leader, retired soldier, David Uangbaoje, also commended Ilaboya for his efforts to give education to those in need. “I join others to thank and commend Hon Ilaboya for the free JAMB he gives out to our children every year. This is the fourth year and I am very proud of his efforts.  More grace to his elbows.” Ilaboya explained that this year’s scheme saw 65 beneficiaries spread across the 11 wards that make up Owan West. “We thank God we have been able to give hope to those who could not ordinarily afford to go to school. Education is light and God’s willing, we will continue to spread this light to as many people as possible. “This vision started four years ago, and today, over 450 students have benefited from it to the glory of God,” Ilaboya said. The event was attended by parents of beneficiaries, women leaders, youth leaders, teachers and other community leaders. GodsPower Izevbekhai, who spoke on behalf of the beneficiaries, said he was happy with free JAMB assistance and thanked the sponsor for coming to their aid. He promised the council boss that the beneficiaries would do him proud.