A non-governmental organisation (NGO) Olakoko Sustainability Project has built a community hall for cocoa farmers in Onidodo Community in Odigbo Local Government Area of Ondo State. The project is supported by Sucden, Ferrero, and Starlink Global with mandate of improving the lives of cocoa farmers.The organisation ensures that the farmers are trained on Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) and that the necessary information are taken and well-documented to foster cocoa traceability standard. The NGO’s training pack for the farmers also include nutrition and health benefit of food, which will avail  farmers to know the kind of food to eat at a particular period and the food that is necessary for a certain age group. The Olakoko Project Officer, Bankole Ojo, said: “Our target is to bring back the old glory of cocoa production back to our farmers by giving them best training with our field officers that train them every two weeks on good agricultural practices, good business practices and good environmental practices.” He added: “We also train and encourage our farmers under the project to diversify to have something to lean on during the cocoa offseason.” The project had supported the local cocoa farmers in communities health care services, women empowerment, education (Back-to-School) support for children aside capital projects like a block of four classrooms built in Oke Osin community in Atakumosa West Local Governmnet Area (LAG) of Osun State and a a borehole project in Ibutitan community of Ifedore LGA of Ondo State as part of corporate social responsibility. The Country Manager, SUCDEN-Nigeria,Mr. Banji Akinbinu, said: “This is a challenge to the government (local and state and even at the Federal level) and other well-meaning members of the society to remember the rural dwellers by providing facilities that can enhance their livelihood. ‘’The government need to provide basic and primary amenities to farmers in rural area like good road and electricity, so they won’t be leaving farming activities and migrating to city.” Mrs. Raphaelle Peinado of SUCDEN-Paris advised the farmers to guard the hall facilities. She said cocoa farming would move higher, if proper attention and care were given to cocoa farmers in the rural areas. A consultant and member of the AgriLogic, Sanne Steemers Adeola, is optimistic that Nigeria’s cocoa would hit the top spot if farmers keep to the quality standards as required at the international market. She believes that the concerned stakeholder in the country need to support farmers to grow cocoa, as this will positively improve foreign exchange for the country, hence boost the economy. As a beneficiary, the lead farmer in Onidodo Community, Mrs. Tawakalitu Adeyemi  appreciated and expressed joy towards Olakoko Project for building such a facility in the community ahead of others within the project. She promised that, cocoa farmers in the community will continue to prepare their cocoa to meet international standard in assurance that more of such benefit will come to the community.