AIICO Insurance Plc has partnered EdFin Microfinance Bank to provide sustainable education. Over 400 schools were represented at EdFin’s Stakeholder Forum on Education, which held in Lagos. Participants, which include school owners, PTA representatives, deliberated on issues affecting education with the aim of proffering solutions for the growth of the sector and sustainable future for students. The event featured information sessions, such as financial literacy training, facilitated by Fate Foundation. It was followed by an exhaustive interactive session between the company’s Board of Directors and participants. Other sessions included live demos on Google Bolo (a speech-based reading tutor app to help children in rural regions with the reading skills) by Google Nigeria and Wowbii Tap – a world-class interactive board preloaded with intelligent educational content to help teachers improve the quality of instruction in schools and enhance subject-matter understanding among students/pupils. The Managing Director, EdFin MfB, Mrs. Bunmi Lawson expressed gratitude to the major sponsors of the event, noting that AIICO Insurance provides life insurance for pupils in the bank’s network of schools, and FlexiSAF, a software development company, for their support to the event. In demonstration of its passionate commitment for education, AIICO has several innovative product offerings targeted at risk protection for sustainable education of the Nigerian child. The Executive Director and Head of Retail Business at AIICO, Olusola Ajayi said education is a key area of focus in the company’s Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability function. He said: “We contribute our quota to the development of education through diverse initiatives and form strategic alliances with relevant stakeholders like EdFin to meet our objectives. “The partnership with EdFin Microfinance Bank is strategic, given their niche, their reach and positioning within the Nigerian educational sector.” AIICO commenced operations in 1963. It provides life and health insurance, general insurance, investment management and pension management services as a means to create and protect wealth for individuals, families and corporate customers.