 The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has charged President Muhammadu Buhari to go beyond his sympathy visit to Borno state and take decisive steps to end the killings in that state and other parts of the country. The party said the booing of President Buhari in Borno state on Wednesday was a clear message to him that Nigerians hold him responsible for the escalated insecurity in the country. In a statement on Wednesday by the spokesman for the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, the party said the booing of the President also showed a loss of confidence in his administration and the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The PDP called on the President not to limit his visit to Borno state but to also visit other parts of the country, including Kaduna, Kano, Benue, Plateau, Yobe, Adamawa, Zamfara, Kogi, Niger, Taraba and other states to test the feelings of Nigerians as well as view the national devastation his poor handling of security and infrastructure has caused the nation. The party hoped that the visit to Borno state, which it said, came only after the PDP and Nigerians criticised the President for his aloofness, particularly over the Auno killings on Sunday, was not part of the usual presidential media stunts that will not be followed with a corresponding action to track down killers and end terrorism. The PDP further charged the President to endeavour to go on subsequent visits by road in order to see and feel the agony Nigerians are being subjected to, as a result of the parlous state of road infrastructure and security network under his administration. The statement said, “Our party holds that Nigerians do not deserve a distant President, who sits in the comfort of the Presidential villa and luxury jets, remaining indifferent to the pains, anguish and torments that compatriots suffer on a daily basis. “The PDP hereby calls on Mr. President to quickly embark on these visits and monitor, on first hand basis, the damage which his administration has caused and for which Nigerians are demanding that he resigns and allow more competent hands to manage the affairs of our nation. “It is only after these visits that the Buhari Presidency will appreciate that those calling on him to rejig the nation’s security architecture mean well for our dear country”.