 The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ondo State has moved to reconcile warring factions ahead of the November governorship election. The protracted wrangling among members, which has created a gulf between Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu and the estranged group led by former deputy governor Ali Olanusi is fizzling out. The national leadership of the party led by Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu last July met the two factions with a view to reconciling them. Seven months after the peace meeting, the members of the party from the two factions met last weekend and agreed to unite before the next governorship election. Members of the Olanusi faction, including former chairman of the party in the state,  Isaac Kekemeke, ex-commissioner for Regional Integration in Osun State  Bola Ilori, Ife Oyedele and a host of others are against the second term ambition of Governor Akeredolu. But at the peace meeting held in Akure and attended by members from the two factions, it was agreed that Governor Akeredolu should be the leader of the party. The former National Vice Chairman of APC (Southwest), Chief Pius Akinyelure and ex-APC chairman in Ondo State, Isaacs Kekemeke, were appointed chairman and secretary of the Advisory Council. Notable leaders of the party, including Asiwaju Tinubu, Chief Bisi Akande, Chief Segun Osoba and Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi were instrumental to the reconciliation. The Advisory Council comprising 31 members, including the governor, deputy governor, some selected leaders, serving and past senators, members of the House of Representatives, Speaker of the House of Assembly and one representative of each of the 18 local government areas, was inaugurated. At a meeting held behind closed doors, Governor Akeredolu appealed to members to put the past behind them. He urged them to work for the unity of the party. According to him, the council is not a forum for deciding the candidacy of the party for the 2020 governorship election. He said he would run a more inclusive government. Also, a five-member committee headed by Chief Olusola Oke was constituted to consult stakeholders and party faithful across the state.