Upon the installation of Oba Abdulrasheed Akanbi  as the Oluwo of Iwo Kingdom on November 9, 2015, his mandate was not just to function as the traditional head of the Iwo community but to also act as the symbol and custodian of the culture and tradition of the historical town. But if there is one picture he has cut since he ascended the throne of the 700-year-old kingdom, it is that of a ruler determined to make a joke of the cultural heritage he was appointed to protect and preserve. Many people outside Iwo Kingdom may view the Oba’s antics as a comic relief from the tension foisted on the nation by widespread famine and insecurity. To well-meaning Iwo indigenes, however, they are veritable acts of monumental embarrassment. Last week, the news media were awash with stories of his physical assault on the traditional ruler of Ogbaagbaa community in Osun State, Oba Dhikurulahi Akinropo, during a peace meeting called by Bashir Makama, the Assistant Inspector-General of Police (AIG) in charge of Zone 11. Although the Oluwo has since denied physically attacking Oba Akinropo, the Council of Traditional Rulers in Osun State believed that he had said and done enough to merit suspension from the council for six months. Numbered among his sins was his alleged misconduct to the Alake of Egbaland, Oba Adedotun Gbadebo; the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi and the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi. In a reaction that may not come as a surprise to keen followers of Oba Akanbi’s antics, he laughed to scorn the decision that was the outcome of an emergency meeting conducted by the most revered royal fathers across Yorubaland. Moments after the frontline monarchs announced his suspension the Oluwo posted a video on Instagram, gleefully declaring that he remained the only Oluwo of Iwoland. In another post, he described his suspension as “audio”, saying that he did not care about his purported suspension by the traditional rulers. The Oluwo wrote in one of the posts: “Good evening. You can see that I’m still in the palace of the Oluwo of Iwoland. There is no suspension. The suspension of (sic) the council of Obas is audio. It’s just audio. E ma pariwo (make no noise). The AIG cleared that Oluwo didn’t punch anybody. So, don’t listen to some people saying they can suspend me at their meetings. I don’t have to be at their meetings.” Since his appointment as the Oluwo about five years ago, Oba Akanbi has courted and cuddled controversy like a caring mother does her baby. Two years ago, he left the people of Iwo and observing members of the public in shock when he dressed himself in the garb of a northern ruler and labelled himself an emir. He said he cared less what the other Yoruba Obas who cried foul thought about his action once the emirs in the northern part of the country were in love with it. Before the dust raised by the weird action could settle, he also declared himself Igwe and Obi, two traditional titles in Igboland. He said: “I am the Emir of Yorubaland. I am the Igwe of Yorubaland and the Obi of Yorubaland. I can bear all titles of kings. We have to upgrade and update our traditional culture else we will go into extinction. The northern traditional rulers admired my Emir regalia whenever I put it on, but (I am) not getting support from Yoruba Obas and people. By saying that I can also be addressed as emir, I talked metaphorically. But some bad-belle (evil-minded) people are condemning me and telling lies against me. My enemies are making me known. God is using my enemies to promote me. Some people don’t like the way I add swags. I can’t help them. I want to upgrade our culture. I promote ofi dress and emirs love my dressing.” Of course, the Iwo monarch is at liberty to seek justification for his weird actions. The concern, however, is the identity crisis his actions could provoke among the present generation of Iwo sons and daughters who could grow up thinking that they are Bayajidda’s descendants. His actions smack of a traditional ruler who is desperate to remain in the limelight even if he must offend the sensibilities of his right-thinking subjects. He tends always to forget that he is a representative of a people whose interests he must place above his if he must excel in his role as the symbol and custodian of their cultural heritage. Even the manner in which he divorced his Jamaican wife and the public show he made of it cannot be a good advertisement for Iwo, and serious-minded members of the community would not be amused by it. Oba Akanbi could not have forgotten so soon the events that culminated in the dethronement of a former traditional ruler of Akure, Oba Oluwadare Adesina, about 10 years ago. For engaging his wife in a broil in the public, the kingmakers in Akure felt that the community had suffered enough embarrassment at the hands of the then monarch and promptly initiated the proceedings that culminated in his dethronement. The Oluwo should be thanking mother fortune that he reigns in a community whose kingmakers are blessed with a lot of patience. But he should not push his luck too far or take their tolerance for granted. A time may come when their patience would be spent and they would no longer take the Oba’s acts of misdemeanor on the chin.    