Okodili Ndidi, Abuja  The much-awaited forensic auditing of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) is set to commence, The Nation has gathered. The Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Sen. Godswill Akpabio, said the Ministry has received the necessary approval from the Bureau of Public Procurement (BPP) for the exercise to commence in earnest. Akpabio who spoke during a tripartite meeting with the Interim Management Committee of the NDDC, the Forensic Consultant and the Ministry, allayed the fear of possible witchhunt. According to him, “the directives by President Muhammadu Buhari for the forensic auditing of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), is not to witch hunt anyone or group, but to ascertain what went wrong and put in place a governmental structure that will be result oriented”. He added that “the Bureau of Public Procurement (BPP) has assessed the firm and found them fit to be the leading Consulting Firm that will lead the appointment of other forensic auditors for the NDDC audit spanning between 2001- 2019. “We have received the approval of BPP to now commence the exercise. “The next task is to work in collaboration with the Ministry to bring in experienced and notable forensic auditors with international reputation, so that whatever report is produced will be accepted and enforceable within and outside the country”. The Permanent Secretary of the Ministry, Mr. Olusade Adesola, explained that the tripartite meeting was to bring at par the various stakeholders in the forensic audit team, and address all grey areas of concern. He stated further that the President’s directive was to address the issues of irregularities in NDDC, adding that the Auditor-General for the Federation, Mr. Mkpe Ayine, has interacted with the Consulting Firm to ascertain if they have the capacity to do the Job. The Executive Director Projects of Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, and the Chairman of Contracts Verification Committee, Dr. Cairo Ojougboh, affirmed that the Consulting Firm is well equipped to carry out the forensic exercise.