There is brewing tension among the hierarchy of the Boko Haram and the Islamic State of West African Province (ISWAP), the two major terror groups operating in the North East, The Nation has reliably gathered. A reliable source close to some of the repented Boko Haram Commanders, said that there is a major plot to execute the Boko Haram leader, Abubakar Shakau over growing mistrust and struggle for supremacy. According to the source who craved anonymity, many of the Boko Haram and ISWAP Commanders have been killed as a result of infighting among the insurgents. It was gathered that fresh crisis hit the terrorists’ camps after the extermination of Muhammad Shuwa, Abu – Mossad Albarnawee and Baa Idirisa on February 9, 2020. The death of these two top commanders, the source said has deepened the suspicion and distrust in Shekau’s camp. He disclosed further that most of Shakau’s key Commanders and fighters had deserted him and are secretly planning to execute him. According to the source, “key Commanders under the leadership of Mallam Bakura have been constantly planning to kill Shekau because of his high handedness, erratic disposition, mental imbalance and non adherence to pristine Islamic tenets or the original BHTs’ doctrine and Ideology. “They further accused him of serial clandestine killings of some terrorists Commanders that he viewed as threats to his despotic leadership. Also it was revealed that Shekau has uncontrollable mad desire for women including his fellow jihadists’ women and daughters”. All these the source said have “increasingly alienated him from some of his high profile Commanders that are now surreptitiously planning to eliminate him. It is just a matter of time that Shekau will be no more. The Source added that “the latest information from though yet to be confirmed is that Shekau has been eliminated by his detractors who are averse to his inordinate lust for raping women and under aged girls including those married to his fellow jihadists fighters. His penchant for the use of girl child for suicide bombings has been a great issue of concern in the terrorists’ camp. “The major point of disagreement between the two camps lies in what a source described as Anti Islamic activities and indiscriminate killing of people whether moslem or Christians, children or adults including raping women who are married or unmarried. “These problems are compounded because of the increasing operational activities of Nigerian troops and the multinational Joint Taskforce in Northern Borno State”.