To save 600,000 lives and prevent 22 million injuries in low and middle-income countries, Bloomberg Philanthropies has announced that it is committing another $240 million from 2020 – 2025 to global road safety. In a statement to newsmen in Sweden at the 3rd Global Ministerial Conference on Road Safety, the group said the reinvestment would be for six years and would double the impact of road safety. Over 312,000 lives have been saved and up to 11.5 million injuries have been prevented since 2007, the NGO stated. “Over the past 12 years, Bloomberg Philanthropies has invested $260 million to curb deaths and injuries from road traffic crashes. That investment has led ten countries (China, Russia, Thailand, the Philippines, Cambodia, Vietnam, Kenya, Brazil, Turkey, and India) and 12 localities to change their laws or policies to reduce at least one road safety risk factor. “Over 3.5 billion people are now covered by a new road safety law or policy since the Initiative began”, the statement read. “The reinvestment by Bloomberg Philanthropies would also include a new awards competition to shine a light on low and middle-income countries that have made exemplary progress in road safety. “The Director of Public Health at Bloomberg Philanthropies, Kelly Henning said that by increasing their commitment to road safety, Bloomberg Philanthropies would be able to double its impact by leveraging on the lessons learned in the past and adopt new approaches that will accelerate progress in road safety. “As Transport and Health Ministers from around the world gather in Sweden this week for the 3rd Global Ministerial Conference on Road Safety, we should keep in mind that these deaths and injuries are completely preventable. “After more than a decade of working with our international and in-country partners, we know which policies and interventions are saving lives,” said Kelly. The Director of the Department of Social Determinants of Health at the World Health Organization, Dr. Etienne Krug lamented the high price paid over mobility stating that it is unacceptable. He stated that the support from Bloomberg Philanthropies would go a long way in reducing road traffic crisis adding that it would help in achieving the decade of action on Road Safety. “The price we are paying for our mobility is unacceptable. We need to do much more to save lives on our roads. This new investment is excellent news that comes at a critical time when world leaders convene to decide on achieving a 50% reduction in road traffic deaths by 2030. “This support from Bloomberg Philanthropies will catalyze action to help achieve that target.”