Chevron Nigeria Limited (CNL), operator of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation NNPC/CNL Joint Venture, has won two awards – the Award for Excellence in Environmental Sustainability and Stewardship and Award for the Best Exhibition Booth at NIPS 2019. It was presented the awards at a dinner and awards night organised as part of activities marking the opening ceremony of the Nigerian International Petroleum Summit (NIPS). At the event, held at Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja, CNL was recognised for its outstanding performance in the oil and gas industry. CNL’s Chairman and Managing Director, Jeff Ewing, received the two awards on behalf of the company. The event was attended by many dignitaries, including  the Chairman, Senate committee, Petroleum Upstream, Senator Albert Bassey Akpan; and Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva. Others were petroleum ministers from other African countries as well as representatives of the Ministry of Petroleum Resources; the Group Managing Director, NNPC, Mallam Mele Kolo Kyari; industry regulators and other captains of the oil and gas industry. Sylva noted that the awards represent recognition of the contributions of the awardees to the growth and development of the Nigerian oil and gas industry. “The oil and gas industry is the mainstay of the Nigerian economy, and anyone who is awarded recognition by the industry is being recognised by Nigeria as a country,” he said. CNL’s General Manager, Policy, Government and Public Affairs (PGPA), Esimaje Brikinn, expressed the company’s delight over the recognition and awards. He explained that the NNPC/CNL Joint Venture is a major oil and gas producer and has provided substantial revenue to the NNPC, Federal Government and State Governments for close to 60 years. He also stated that CNL is happy to be part of the solution to the global environmental issues wherever the company operates, through its sound environmental management policy that supports environmental stewardship and sustainable development. Brikinn added that the company is the leading domestic gas supplier and has made great strides in putting out gas flares and increasing gas supply to the domestic market through its integrated gas development projects.  “Chevron is the largest domestic gas supplier in Nigeria,” he said.