The Group Chief Executive Officer (GCEO) of Ecobank Transnational Incorporated (ETI), Ade Ayeyemi, has said Nigeria has the capacity to feed Africa’s estimated 1.2 billion people if it harnesses the gains of the agricultural value chain. According to him, success in Nigeria’s agricultural sector means the reduction in the demand for foreign exchange to import food items into the country and  the development of the agribusiness value-chain with a resultant  effect in the creation of a new breed of entrepreneurs as well as jobs for the teeming population. Ayeyemi spoke at the Ecobank Agribusiness Summit in Lagos. The summit had its theme Unlocking Productivity and Investment Opportunities Across Nigeria’s Agribusiness Value Chain. According to Ayeyemi, Ecobank decided to create a platform of a summit to enable thought-leaders who are passionate  about  agricul ture and its importance to Nigeria’s economy put heads together and find ways to maximise the significant potential gains of boosting agribusiness in Nigeria. Also speaking, Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Alhaji Mohammed Nanono affirmed that the admini-stration of President Mohammadu Buhari is committed to finding a lasting solution to issues bothering on food security affecting the country. Nanono who was represented by the Hon. Minister of State for Agriculture and Rural Development, Mustapha Baba Shehuri, also stressed on the need for viable synergy and collaboration between relevant stakeholders in the agricultural sector, so as to further promote its contribution to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of the country. “The aim of this submit is indeed very apt as it would contribute on creating a sustainable economy through the development of rural agricultural enterprises. It is gladdening that this forum has brought together small-holders, input dealers, agro-processors, development finance agencies, policy makers and the captains of industries under one roof to discuss the problems and challenges facing the sector, with the view to finding solutions and way forward. “This summit also marks another milestone attraction in the journey of economic diversification in line with the vision of the economic recovery growth plan of the current administration of his Excellency, President Mohammadu Buhari, to boost agricultural production prosperity, promote innovative technologies and investment in the agricultural sector, in order to achieve poverty reduction and job creation. “Nigeria’s potentials and prospects, makes the agricultural sector a pilot for economic stabilisation, diversification and growth in the country. Indeed, the sector is a major contributor to the national Gross Domestic Product (GDP), contributing about 27 percent to the GDP and the biggest in job creation in the non-oil sector”.