Boxers representing Nigeria are angry with the Boxing Federation and the Nigeria sports authorities after their Olympic dreams were dashed this week. Nigeria missed the final opportunity of having boxers qualify for the 2020 summer Olympics in Tokyo as lack of funds ruled the team out of the African Olympics Qualifiers which started yesterday in Dakar, Senegal. Nigeria missed the first opportunity to qualify when the team missed the AIBA World Championships last year in Russia. Some of the boxers, who pleaded for anonymity because they were not authorized to do, said they will dump amateur boxing based on their present circumstance. “This is the situation that is forcing amateur boxers to turn professional. We don’t get anything from amateur boxing. We sacrifice personal resources, but they don’t treat us well. This was our chance to fight and showcase our skills. The only joy we get from amateur boxing is when we fight outside the country,” he said. “I believe I would have performed enough to qualify for Tokyo based on my performance at the last African Games in Morocco,” he added. “It is sad that I cannot compete for a place in the Olympics where I can lock horns with the best amateur boxers in my division,” lamented the boxer, who is ranked eighth in his division. Another boxer added: “We were ready for the qualifiers; we have been preparing for this tournament for a long time only to be told we cannot travel to Senegal at the eleventh hour. It’s so sad.” Another revealed that the boxers were responsible for their upkeep during their time in camp, adding that the experience was a disaster from the start. “We were told to come to Lagos for the national camp without any arrangement for us by sports ministry and Nigeria Boxing Federation. I must confess I am not proud to be a Nigerian,” he said. This would be the first time since the 1988 Games in Seoul, Korea that Nigeria would not be represented at the event that has provided the second highest number of medals (6)and Nigeria’s first ever Olympic medal when Nojim Maiyegun won the bronze medal at the 1964 Tokyo Games.