NOLLYWOOD actress and filmmaker, Tolulope Oke, has said that movies should be uplifting to the society. Oke, who recently produced a new film, Cookie Spot, said this in an interview. “There are some perspectives that should be changed in the storylines,” she said. “The voodoo aspects give people some wrong impression that anything can happen. In the real sense of it, selling our culture makes us unique but it should be done appropriately. Our culture should be projected positively not only about voodoo. “The industry should always seek societal upliftment and project positive values. There are several innovative values that can impact the society.” According to Oke, ‘Cookie Pot’ is “a story of survival wherever you find yourself. There is always a means of survival. The inspiration of Cookie Spot from a carwash that can turn to a big business. The lady got help from a woman where she was working to establish her own business. She wanted a good life for her mother and herself which the mother rejected due to untold story she didn’t reveal to her daughter about her father. Some notable Nollywood stars who featured in ‘Cookie Spot’ are Adejumo Lewis, Funso Adeolu, Sola Sobowale, Ayo Adesanya, Bolanle Ninalowo, Omowunmi Dada and others. Highlighting the message of ‘Cookie Spot’, Oke said: “There is the need for women to support one another. The young women should see the bigger picture of whatever they are doing. Possibilities are endless in life. Whatever you are doing, you should not give up. You can always be a better person wherever you are. You should learn to survive in a way that will add value to others.” Oke, who was born in Lagos, read Sociology at the University of Lagos. She later studied Dramatic Arts at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ife. She said her family did not suport her acting career and wanted her to be a lawyer. “Acting has been in me since my primary school days,” she said. “My parents didn’t see the skills in me so they wanted me to study Law. All they wanted to see their only girl become was a Lawyer.” Oke joined the industry in 2005/2006 but started fully 2011/2012 when she featured in ‘Awure eni’, produced by Muhideen Oladapo. She has featured in over 20 movies including ‘Dazzling Mirage’ by Tunde Kelani, ‘Jenifa’s Diary’ and ‘Induststreet’ by Scene one TV owned by Funke Akindele. On her own personal works, movies OKe has produced include ‘Bi ala(Like a dream)’, ‘Alebu mi(My weakness)’, ‘Omiran(Giant)’, ‘Homesick’ and others.