Editorial I aCompared with a 2018 finding by the World Poverty Clock, the simple implication is that things have grown worse. In fact, the prognosis would appear more chilling. For instance, whereas the World Poverty Clock puts the number of Nigerians living in extreme poverty as at June 2018 at 86.9 million, the bank’s latest estimates put it at 124.2 million – based on its finding of 69 percent national average. As if that is not serious enough, the bank also finds that more than 50 per cent of the 36 states actually have a poverty rate above that national average. Although the bank did not name the states affected, we know for a fact that Sokoto, Katsina, Adamawa, Gombe, Jigawa, Plateau, Ebonyi, Bauchi, Kebbi and Zamfara are the leaders among the poorest states in the federation. It therefore goes without saying that whereas insecurity might be a key factor in the prevalence of the scourge, a more comprehensive explanation would have to be sought in maladministration, corruption and other poor indices of governance in those states. This is where action is most needed. In fairness to the Federal Government, not only has it demonstrated its awareness of the scale of the problems, it has, commendably, set the pace in confronting them. Under its Social Intervention Programmes, we have seen the Federal Government pour in billions into such initiatives as Conditional Cash Transfers, Home Grown School Feeding Programme, N-Power and other similar initiatives designed to facilitate social inclusion and hence bring poverty to a more tolerable level. There have also been massive interventions in agriculture through the CBN-initiated Anchor Borrowers’ Scheme designed to ease farmers’ access to cheap credit. In the same vein, a lot is being done to address the infrastructural challenges without which the economy will continue to limp. Yet, the reality – in the face of the yawning infrastructure gap – is that it still has a long way to go.  Unfortunately, there is pretty little evidence that the states are stepping up to match the Federal Government’s efforts with complementary initiatives. Just as corruption remains rife across the board in a number of the states, such is the appalling choice of priorities by some governors that leaves one wondering if they understood their purpose in government. The situation explains why some governors would undertake to build religious houses at a time school enrolment is at the lowest levels ever with 13 million of kids out of school; it explains the ritual of giving out tricycles under the cover of empowerment as against investment in basic artisanal skills; the countless white elephants scattered across state capitals. As it is, the situation is one of dire emergency. While it is unfortunately the case that democracy has fallen miserably short of producing shrewd managers, the least expected of our governors at this time is to urgently seek to change the growing narrative that somewhat sees democracy and development in diametric opposition. The situation as it is, calls for a new tempo of investment in schools and skills acquisition centres; in health and other social services as indeed critical infrastructure. In all, if anyone ever needed further evidence of how limited our current pre-occupation with palliatives and other forms of handouts is, the verdict from the African Economic Outlook 2020 should be it.