 Group known as Oodua People’s Congress New Era has described as unfortunate statements credited to the leader of Arewa Youth Congress (AYC) over the chances of the Yoruba race in securing presidential ticket in 2023 because of the creation of Amotekun security outfit. Kwara state Coordinator of OPC New Era Bayo Fabiyi in a statement urged the presidency to order the arrest of Shetima Yerima based on his inciting utterances. He reiterated the need for Northern leaders who truly love the unity of the country to call these youths to order from saying what could endanger the peace and unity of Nigeria. He asker “how could Yerima give ultimatum and call for war if he doesn’t have a secret agenda to destabilize the country under the guise of protesting against Amotekun? “If someone from another tribe makes such a statement, by now he would have been declared wanted but Yerima’s threat is been treated with kid’s glove.” The OPC New Era national treasurer said: “In his early days in Lagos, we were together with Yerima as a young man.  In the spirit of cooperation and togetherness, we brought Yerima close to us so that his people will not see us as enemies. Then at Idiaraba Lagos, Yerima arranged dancers that entertained us during our meetings and also enjoyed our protection. We assisted him when he was forming his various groups for political awareness and recognition and today, he is calling OPC names, he is such an ingrate. He would also see what ingratitude does to people.” Fabiyi said that Amotekun is not a threat to national security but an initiative of the Yoruba people to secure themselves and the people in the area. He added that “if the police and military had been enough to secure the country Amotekun would not have come up. The OPC leader said that the Yoruba people would not leave their house open and endanger the lives of the people in the domain just because of presidential ambition. He asked: “Who will we lead over if we become president and every one under us have been killed by Boko Haram? Yorubas are wiser; we would secure our home before vying for any office. Besides, is it Myeti Allah that doles out presidency ticket? These people should stop escalating the crises in the country.”