By Collins Nweze Transnational Corporation of Nigeria Plc (Transcorp) yesterday made key appointments to the conglomerate’s Board and Executive Management. The appointees are   Owen Omogiafo, President/Group CEO, Transcorp Group and Dupe Olusola, as the Managing Director/CEO, Transcorp Hotels Plc. The appointments take effect from March 25. Other appointees are Helen Iwuchukwu as an Executive Director/Chief Operating Officer, Transcorp Hotels Plc; Christopher Ezeafulukwe as the Managing Director/CEO, Transcorp Power Plant, Ughelli; Okaima Ohizua emerged Executive Director/Chief Operating Officer, Transcorp Power Limited, while former Transcorp CEO Valentine Ozigbo was appointed Non-Executive Director by the Board of Transcorp Plc following his resignation. Omogiafo succeeds Ozigbo, who is retiring to pursue a career in public service, having served Transcorp for close to a decade. Omogiafo is the Managing Director/CEO of Transcorp Hotels Plc and has over two decades of corporate experience in organisational development, human capital management, banking, change management and hospitality. Olusola  is the Group Head, Marketing at United Bank for Africa Plc. She has over 21 years of corporate experience spanning, including Managing Director/CEO of Teragro Juice Concentrate Plant and holds a Bachelor of Arts in Economics from the University of Leicester and a Masters in Development Economics from the University of Kent. Iwuchukwu  is the Group Company Secretary of Transcorp Plc and  holds an LL. B. (Hons) and was enrolled as a Solicitor and Advocate of the Supreme Court of Nigeria in 1993 (BL Hons) and holds a Master of Laws (LL M.) from Middlesex University Business School, London.  Also, Ezeafulukwe was the Executive Director, Business Development & Legal, Transcorp Plc. He has over 21 years’ experience in business development, legal advisory and company secretarial roles. Ohizua is the Executive Director (ED), Customer Services at Transcorp Hotels Plc. She has over 25 years’ experience and has been key to the continued service transformation at Transcorp Hilton Hotel, since joining the Board and Management in 2013.  Speaking on these appointments, the Chairman, Transcorp Group and Heirs Holdings, Tony Elumelu, said the  new chief executives and non-executive directors will further strengthen Transcorp’s mission of improving lives across Nigeria. “These appointments demonstrate our commitment to nurturing talent and rewarding success. We have a deep pool of highly qualified and dedicated employees, who can be challenged with more responsibility in attaining our corporate vision. We remain committed to diversity and inclusion; are delighted by the depth and quality of experience that this leadership team brings to our group. These appointments further indicate our internal succession capacity and strong corporate governance practices,” he said. Elumelu thanked Ozigbo for his achievements as CEO. He highlighted that the Board of Transcorp will continue to implement its defined strategy, which has led its investee companies being leaders in their chosen sectors and has seen significant transformation, since Elumelu’s holding company, Heirs Holdings invested in 2011.