Borno still mourns the brutal murder of over 30 travellers by Boko Haram terrorists on Sunday, February 9, 2020. The victims were burned alive by the extremists at Auno village, where they had been advised to spend the night on account of the dangers involved in road travel, at night, in the northeast due to the Boko Haram insurgency. The attack has also cast a dark shadow on the military efforts in the fight against the insurgents  in the NorthEast. One of the victims was Fatima Babagana, a Mass Communication student at the University of Maiduguri. Those who knew her said she had a very lively spirit. Fatima, according to family sources, was charred beyond recognition during the attack. Her uncle, Mohammed Bashir Shuwa, who confirmed her death on his Facebook page, said: “Inna Lillahi Wa Inna Ilaihi Raji’un, I lost my niece Mama Gana (Fatima Babagana ), who was burnt to ashes by Boko Haram around Auno Jakana axis. She was the daughter of my younger brother, Staff Sergeant Babagana Kachallah. Until her death, she was a student of Mass Communication at the University of Maiduguri. May Almighty Allah forgive her and make Aljanna Firdaus her final resting place. Bashir on the third day prayers of the death of his niece, which coincided with President Muhammadu Buhari’s condolence visit to Maiduguri, prayed that Allah might grant repose to the soul of his niece. He said, “As we mark the third day prayers for my niece Mama Gana (Fatima Babagana) I join the family back home in prayer. May Almighty Allah forgive her, may Almighty Allah forgive her, may Almighty Allah forgive her. May Almighty Allah accept all her good deeds. May Almighty Allah reward her with Aljanna Firdaus. Allahu Akbar.” The Secretary of the Maiduguri Metropolitan Council Zanna Alhaji Shettima ( Zanna sunoma of Borno Emirate council ),in a tribute,attested to Babagana’s character. He said: “For those who know Fatima, she was very passionate about what she was doing and positive about her life goals and dreams.” One of her lecturers, Prof. Gujbawu, described her as “very intelligent, very sociable character, and always smiling.” He added: “But that lively spirit has been cut off. It’s very unfortunate. May God grant her paradise.” One of her friends on Facebook, who gave the impression that he was the deceased’s lover, said he lost a heart who would have been his life partner and prayed for the repose of her soul. Uumi Kachalla, her former classmate, said she could not believe that Babagana was no more as two of them spoke last week about their future plans. According to her, the deceased said she wanted to become a top television journalist. The Head of the Department (HOD) of Mass Communication, University of Maiduguri, Dr. Nasir Abba Aji, was quoted as saying, that the deceased was passionate about becoming a top-notch broadcaster in the country. Babagana hailed from Gujba Local Government of Yobe State.