By Taofik Salako, Capital Market Editor  Goxi MicroInsurance Company  Limited has formally launched its operations as the first stand-alone micro-insurance company licensed by the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) promises to deepen insurance penetration. At the formal launch in Lagos, Chairman, Goxi MicroInsurance Company Limited, Dr Godwin Ehigiamusoe said the firm aimed to foster greater insurance penetration especially within micro and small businesses. According to him, the targets of Goxi MicroInsurance Company Limited are the low-income people and micro and small enterprises that are highly vulnerable and often overlooked by the large-ticket operators. “It is our conviction that low-income people and owners of micro and small businesses require robust risk mitigation service by the nature of their slim economic base. The death of a bread winner in a low-income household can be devastating. Fire in the market place can wipe out the entire assets of an owner of micro and small businesses. Access to insurance cover is therefore vital to efforts to address poverty and expand the frontiers of finance, “ Ehigiamusoe said. He noted that low-income Nigerians in rural and urban communities need a bouquet of insurance cover for their lives, farms, shops and assets for viability and effectiveness.  According to him, microfinance and microinsurance are complementary services that are very effective in addressing the challenge of poverty because while access to finance assists low income people to build up assets, insurance services protect these assets. He said Goxi MicroInsurance would be open to partnership with community-based associations and co-operative societies. Managing Director, Goxi MicroInsurance Company Limited, Mr Shina Gbadegesin explained that the company would operate as a composite microinsurer with its base within Lagos State. He noted that while the concept was not completely new in Nigeria, the new development of licensing of microinsurance firm as a stand-alone company by NAICOM was a new bold step. He assured that the company has a team of brilliant professionals with adequate experience to service the target customers while it has also made substantial investment in technology to enable smooth partnership in delivering value to its customers. He Gbadegesin urged various associations, aggregators, cooperative societies, microfinance banks and microfinance institutions to partner with the company in order to provide microinsurance services to their members. 