By  Femi Macaulay WHEN Minister of Works and Housing Babatunde Fashola toured Niger State to inspect federal highway and housing projects, it was serious business carried out in a business-like way. c aHis first words as the convoy entered Niger State on January 27 were food for thought. He wondered why “deplorable” had become such a popular word used to describe roads in the country. There were failed sections on some roads, he agreed, but it was incorrect to say such federal roads were in a deplorable condition. Exaggeration was a problem, the minister noted. Indeed, we saw good roads that couldn’t be described as “deplorable.” There was drama when the convoy stopped at Gawu Babangida in Gurara Local Government Area of the state. Fashola questioned truck drivers relaxing under their trucks parked at the roadsides. He told them: “The truck drivers must leave the road. I give you one week to leave; otherwise, I will bring law enforcement agents to move all of you away. “We want all truck users and National Union of Road Transport Workers to leave our highways. Let them acquire their own parks and allow the contractors to finish work at a specified time. “You have to tell all other drivers to leave the highways. You must have a yard to park your vehicles. You need the road to do your business. Therefore, you must allow the contractor to work on the roads. “If you leave your trucks on the road, there is no way the contractors can finish their job. Asphalt is being destroyed by the oil truck drivers pour on it on a daily bases, which the contractors must replace before the continuation of work to the next level. This leads to wasting resources that could have fast-tracked the road construction.” The drama happened during the inspection of the Dualisation of Suleja-Minna Road, Phase 1 and 2 in Niger State. According to the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing, “Suleja-Lambatta-Minna Road Route F126 is a 101km asphatic concrete road with 2.75m surface dressed shoulders. It is an important route linking part of the North Central and North Western Zones of the Country to the Federal Capital Territory.” The contract, handled by Salini Nigeria Limited, involves the construction of additional carriageway of 40km and repairs of existing carriageway and concrete works. The contractor is “making steady progress on site.” It was dusk when the convoy arrived for the inspection of the Dualisation of Jebba-Mokwa-Bokani Road Junction in Kwara and Niger States. The community was waiting for the convoy. It was a community celebration. Government officials and local leaders extended conversations on provision of land, compensation, and right of way that were expected to bring positive results. “The contractor is yet to commence works due to delay in the acquisition of right of way and compensation of affected structures,” the ministry said. According to the ministry, “The Ilorin-Jebba-Mokwa-Bokani (A20) road in Kwara and Niger States is part of the Lagos-Kano Trans Sahara road network. The Jebba-Mokwa-Bokani section of the road is only 46km. The road connects the South-West geo-political section to the Northern part of the Country. The traffic on the road is heavy in volume and substantial parts of the traffic are heavy loaded trucks due to the import and export of goods through the Lagos port. “The Dualisation of the road involves the construction of additional carriageway at north end of the River Niger criss-crossing the existing carriageway at different sections of the road. The total length of the road shall be 46km after dualisation. ”The work includes the acquisition of right of way, site clearance, earthworks, pavement construction including filling, sub-base, crushed stone base, asphaltic surfacing, bridgework, culverts, drainage, pedestrian walk way and street lighting within urban section.”  Talking of deplorable roads, the Lambata-Lapai-Bida Road, which was being reconstructed, had extensive bad sections. According to the ministry, “The 124.8km road commenced from Lambata town passing through Lapi – Agaie and terminated at Bida. The existing pavement has deteriorated requiring reconstruction. The reconstruction of the road is imperative to link the Bida-Mokwa section already completed under World Bank and being a major link for vehicular traffic from South West to the North Central part of the country and beyond.” It is noteworthy that “The scope involves the total reconstruction of the 124.81km length of the road,” and the contractor is “making steady progress in the execution of the project.” The state of this road, for instance, shouldn’t encourage “scary narratives coming from influential people in authority,” Fashola argued. He added that critics shouldn’t create impressions not supported by reality. Fashola highlighted the “road economy” or “the economy of road construction,” and how the road projects have a ripple effect economically. His ministry’s plan is: “In each state, every two weeks, a controller must tour all federal roads under their control to detect failures and take action.” The tour wasn’t only about roads. In Minna, the inspectors saw 28 housing units in progress under the National Housing Programme II. Over 1,000 housing units have been completed in 34 states since 2016. The minister talked about funding and land challenges. Fashola’s “expansion mentality” was unmistakable. “What excites me is what infrastructure construction does to an economy,” he said while inspecting the housing project. The road tour showed how improved road network in Niger State, the largest state in the country, could improve the state and the country. Fashola noted “the state’s interconnectivity and the better options of interconnectivity that will result from improved road network.” Being on the road with Fashola was not only enlightening; it was also energising.  Fixing infrastructure deserves concentration because infrastructure is fundamental.     “You must be conscious of the impact of your work on the economy,” Fashola remarked. 