The Kano state Government has stepped up arrangement for the take-off of the proposed Hisbah Academy, (State Police), which will serve as training ground for the Hisbah Corps. The state Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje announced this on Sunday, during a visit to the Head office of the Hisbah command, stressing that his administration is determined to make the agency more articulated and responsive to the needs of the people. “Although Hisbah is doing very well in terms of protecting societal values and crime prevention, there is the need to encourage its officers to do more, by proving them with working materials and a better working environment,” the governor stated. “I am also happy that you are working hand in hand with security agencies to check antisocial activities. This is very commendable. The fact that you intervene in settling family disputes, provide guidance and counseling services, gather intelligence information and engage other positive communal endeavors that security agencies do not handle means that you should be motivated to do more,” he added. In this regard, Governor Ganduje urged the Hisbah Corps to maintain cordial relations with security agencies and to keep their enthusiasm alive, in the interest of a refined social order. To this end, state government will soon embark on major civil engineering works at the headquarters of the state Hisbah board, with the aim of providing a more conducive working atmosphere for the workers. The project will entail completion of some an office complex and the redesign and upgrade of the women section of the building, among others. Conducting the governor road, the Commander – General of the Agency, Sheikh Harun Muhammad Thani ibn Sina, requested the governor to complete and abandoned office complex in the agency’s headquarters, upgrade structures at their female section and provide them with more operational vehicles. He showed the Governor a large cache of assorted intoxicating drinks which are confiscated by his men in different parts of Kano, explaining that the suspects arrested with the drinks would soon be charged to court, in line with extant laws of the state.