A judge of the High Court of Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Justice S. E. Aladetoyinbo, has sued the Federal Government over allegation that its agency, the National Judicial Council (NJC), issued him a warning letter. The action, the plaintiff said, violated his fundamental rights. In the suit he filed before the ECOWAS Court in Abuja, Justice Aladetoyinbo is, among others, seeking the enforcement of his rights to fair hearing, dignity of the human person and against torture. The judge claimed that the NJC letter, issued to him in 2018, also amounted to the violation of his fundamental rights, the right to honour and reputation. He averred that the warning emanated from a petition to the NJC by dissatisfied judgment debtors in a land dispute that was later upheld by the Supreme Court. The judge said he had decided in favour of a judgment creditor. Justice Aladetoyinbo explained that, upon receiving the petition, the NJC set up an investigative committee to examine the petition of the judgment debtor, even though two separate suits on the same subject matter were pending before national courts of competent jurisdiction. The judge said the proceedings before the investigative committee, which heard the petition, were marred by irregularities. He said the committee was improperly constituted while the pleadings and overwhelming evidence of the plaintiff were not considered in reaching its decision. Justice Aladetoyinbo contended that the warning letter emanated from the alleged misapplication of justice, which he said undermined his integrity, respect, honour and good name built for over four decades of excellent discharge of his duties in the service of the defendant. According to him, the letter left him traumatised and demoralised. He is praying the court for, among others, a declaration that the letter of warning issued and published in different media violated his rights to human dignity, respect, honour and integrity. The judge is seeking an order directing the defendant to issue a formal apology to the plaintiff, which he said should be published in three print media and three broadcast media. Justice Aladetoyinbo is equally seeking N855,625,000 as cost for general damages and N12,230,750 as cost of litigation. The Federal Government has challenged the jurisdiction of the ECOWAS Court to hear the matter. It also challenged the competence of the regional court to interpret provisions of the country’s municipal laws/Constitution. The defendant stated, in a counter-affidavit, that Justice Aladetoyinbo had responded to the petition in the exercise of the right of reply afforded him by the NJC. It exonerated the NJC for being law-abiding in fulfilling its anti-corruption obligation and urged the Court to dismiss the case describing it as frivolous, baseless and an abuse of court process. When the case came up yesterday, a three-man panel of the court, led by its President, Justice Edward Asante, conducted preliminary hearing and adjourned till April 3, 2020, for the hearing of the main suit. Other members of the panel are: Justices Gberi-Be Ouattara and Dupe Atoki. Justice Aladetoyinbo filed the suit on June 14, 2018.