Former Registrar of Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB) Prof. Dibu Ojerinde has  appealed for caution among leaders and members of the All Progressives Congress (APC)  in Oyo State over reported protests coming from the camp of an aggrieved group against the recent nomination of Sen. Abiola Ajimobi as Deputy National Chairman (South) of the party. Ojerinde’s call came in the wake of recent media reports which revealed the  opposition of some aggrieved Oyo APC chieftains and leaders to the nomination of the former governor to succeed Chief Adeniyi Adebayo from Ekiti state who has been appointed as the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment. Notable figures reported to be opposed to Ajimobi’s nomination include former deputy governor, Chief Moses Adeyemo, Alhaji Akin Olajide, Sen. Adesoji Akanbi and Alh. Fatai Ibikunle. In a statement he personally issued yesterday from his Igboho country home,  Prof. Ojerinde who is a prominent indigene of Oke-Ogun in Oyo State, described protests against Ajimobi’s nomination for the party’s top leadership job as “unnecessary and ill-conceived “in view of the fact that the idea was a brainchild of eminent APC stakeholders from virtually all the five other south western states as a matter of political exigency. The statement read:  “The former governor may have inevitably offended some of these people while in office and I understand this was also responsible for the crisis which engulfed Oyo APC in 2018 as it was allowed to drag until the party lost the governorship seat to the PDP in 2019 general election. But these same elders and leaders should find a way of resolving this among themselves once-and-for-all in the interest of their teeming members and the state. “A situation whereby they allowed such grievances to cost them the coveted governorship seat must not continue in the interest of the party and the society at large. This has always been my position as a leader of thought in the state. I expressed the same opinion yesterday when I had cause to visit one of these aggrieved leaders in Igboho and again, I am using this medium to appeal to other concerned individuals or groups to bury all the hatchets permanently.” 