 The Provost of the Imo State College of Nursing, Orlu, Princess Ngozi Duru has attributed the high demand for Nigerian nurses in the United States of America, Canada and other developed countries to the discipline imbibed in the nurses by the Nursing and Midwifery Council of Nigeria (NMCN). Duru, who spoke with journalists after NMCN concluded a weeklong training workshop for heads of various colleges and schools of nursing in the South-east and South-south regions of the country, which held in her school, said the rigour of nursing education in Nigeria is so strict that only the very serious and committed ones can scale the hurdles. According to her, the reforms introduced by the NMCN in nursing education in the country had ensured that any candidate who passed council exams in Nigeria would pass similar exams easily in America and Europe. Duru applauded the NMCN for their hard work, reforms in nursing education and curriculum development, which enable nurses trained and licensed in Nigeria to simply challenge the board examinations of any state in the United States to continue their practice as registered nurses once they pass the National Council Licensure Examination (NCLEX), a nationwide examination for licensing nurses in the US and Canada, without sending them back into the classrooms for training as is done in many countries. “Like other professions, the NMCN certifies candidates as Registered Nurses (RN) and Midwives with licenses. For anyone to make it, there is nothing like carry over. It is fail and fail out. So, NMCN is the toughest council in Nigeria in terms of discipline and anyone who is able to pass the board exams, that person can pass any exam anywhere in the world as far as it has something to do with nursing and midwifery. So, when the board in the United States discovered this, it stopped sending Nigerian nurses back to class for refresher course. That’s why Nigerian nurses have become the most sought after in the world, particularly the United States and Canada,” she said. The training programme that held in her school was about students information management system (SIMS), which upon  completion, would enable various colleges and schools of nursing in the country to be able to manage their students records seamlessly from the schools to the council. While describing the hosting of the event by the school as an honour to the college and Imo State in general, she said her return to the college was to save it from the institution from the set-back the college witnessed in the past two years. Duru disclosed that plans are afoot to secure accreditations for the school of midwifery from the NMCN and the general studies courses by the National Board for Technical Education (NABTEB) in the coming months. According to her, with the accreditations, the college would be able to increase intakes during admission. The provost promised that, in spite of the setbacks, the college under her leadership is determined to do everything possible to bring the school back to the part of development. “When we started this college in 2014, the first set of students we graduated became overall best in Nigeria with 98 per cent score at the NMCN exams. Before February 2019, the Nursing and Midwifery Council of Nigeria raised a circular for all schools of nursing and midwifery in Nigeria to move into collegiate or risk being shut down; meaning not to be regulated by the council by the year 2023. Of course, Imo State College of Nursing, Orlu, had already established as a college since 2014 and ahead of all other nursing training institutions in Nigeria,” she said.