OSUN State Governor, Gboyega Oyetola; the Aare Onakankanfo of Yoruba land, Iba Gani Adams; Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi; Oba Moses Oyediran, Ajonbadi III, and Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III, will be among other dignitaries to be given awards at this year’s Osun Festival in Modakeke. The festival is scheduled to hold from 28th to 30th of March, at Yeye Asa Center, Modakeke in Osun State. Speaking at a press conference in Lagos, Yeye Osun of Modakeke, Florence Trautman, said they will be awarded for their contribution to the development of culture and tradition in Yoruba land. She added that the dignitaries will be given awards for ensuring that the African culture is given the respect and attention it deserves globally. According to her, the significance of celebrating the Osun Festival is perception of what the deity represents to the people of Osun State which includes special blessings to the women folk, healing and providing children to the barren women facing challenges in their husbands’ homes. She noted that in the Yoruba religion, the deity called orisa is typically associated with water purity, fertility, love, myths and sensuality that speak against the ills in the society concerning women. “Osun is a powerful deity; at the festival, we will do prayers and offerings to the deity for women believing God for children, among other things.” She explained that the celebration of the Osun Festival is as old as human existence, noting that this year’s theme, ‘African spirituality and its values,’ is geared towards women emancipation and empowerment through culture. “Women have the power to make things right and bring peace to the community. Women at this festival will be trained in diverse skills, including bead-making and catering. There will be exhibitions and special workshops for women and men on self-reliance. There will be a language competition among women, drama, film show, innovation and music,” she said. She said the festival would help restore the Yoruba language and culture, noting that there will also be an exhibition of some of the deities in Yoruba land, including Sango, Ogun, Obatala, Obaluaye and Eshu. There will be exhibitions of the Yoruba culture and people will dress in the costume of the deity. She lamented that we have embraced other people’s religions to the extent that we do not know who our deity is in Yoruba land. She urged families of each tribe to speak their native languages to their children at home. She called on individuals, corporate organisations and governments to support and give a facelift to the Osun Festival, urging brand owners to use the opportunity of the celebration to display their products and services to showcase the value of the African tradition. 