 THE Abraham Adesanya Polytechnic (Aapoly), Ogun State, has inaugurated its Students’ Union executive. The institution elected a new executive of the SU on January 31,  in an open ballot system. In her speech, the Rector, Prof Bilesanmi Jumoke, praised the outgoing President Gbadamozi Azeez for being responsible, responsive and matured. She said: “It is indeed my pleasure to welcome you most warmly to this swearing-in ceremony of the newly elected officers of the Students’ Union (SU). I feel highly delighted to usher in another set of Students’ Union leadership of Abraham Adesanya Polytechnic “Really, the out-going officers under the leadership of Gbadamozi Azeez have left a good legacy which is worthy of emulation. It should be noted that the Students’ Union under his watch embraced dialogue and shunned any form of violence. Also, his efforts towards sustaining peaceful cohabitation of students and members of the host communities cannot be over emphasised.” Speaking on the essence of unionism on campus she added: “Remarkably, I wish to reiterate that students’ unionism is not for fomenting trouble. Rather, it is an opportunity to represent the interest of the students populace to better their welfare both within and outside the polytechnic campuses through dialogue and consultation with appropriate authorities. In this wise, I implore all students to cooperate with them” In his outgoing speech, Azeez pointed out his achievements and encouraged the new executives to make impacts in the institution and beyond.  “Operation keep AAPOLY Clean was launched (under my administration). Peace was sustained in and outside the institution. AAPOLY was also well represented at the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS); National Association of Polytechnic Students(NAPS); and other occasions in Ogun State. We equally assisted less privileged students to pay part of their tuition fee. We built a standard relaxation centre and also organised a mega carnival to enhance students’ social life” Azeez’s successor Ajumobi Oluwatola thanked the Rector for allowing students to exercise their franchise and allowing their votes to count. “On behalf of the entire student of this great citadel of learning, I want to use this opportunity to appreciate the management of the polytechnic who allowed the students to exercise their franchise and allowing their votes count” he said He also appreciated past leaders and students for their support before and after the election. “I want to also thank all students of this institution for their support. I assure you that the leaders you chose are those who see leadership to register an indelible mark in the minds of Nigerian students and the polytechnic community at large. “We will make sure that your good expectations from our government won’t be cut off. Your general welfare won’t be jettisoned and some obnoxious politics affecting you will be bridged,” he added. “My administration will maintain a peaceful, serene and clean environment that will foster academic excellence and make AAPOLYa treasured domain for our academic learning. With the support of the management, I will bring together both governmental and non-governmental organisations, investors and philanthropists, to help  ameliorate the socio-economic suffering of fellow students” “My administration is visioned to set a system that listens to students views, a system that knows that efficient and cost-effective transportation, proper and early dissemination of information, availability of academic facilities, prompt release of results, abolishing of all forms of exploitation and deprivation of students right, a system that will create a formidable relationship between departmental associations, schools and student Unions” The high point of the event was the official commissioning of newly constructed toilets in the institution by Prof Awoderu.