Dr. Bashiru Dawodu represents Oshodi/Isolo Constituency, Lagos State, in the House of Representatives. He spoke with TONY AKOWE on national security, his plans for his constituency and other partisan issues.  In recent time, there has been an increase in the level of insecurity in the country especially activities of the Boko Haram insurgents leading to a resolution by the House calling for the sack of the service chiefs. Insecurity is a broad word. The most important way to look at it is looking at the common things people are facing. First, there is the long standing issue with the Boko Haram people who are not only attacking non Muslims, but also Muslims they felt don’t subscribe to their own school of thought. You know that in the previous government, they almost got to Abuja. But that is not the case now even though they still have their sporadic attacks. Another area of concern is that of bandits who are taking advantage of the situation in the country. Then you have the other criminals like those involved kidnapping which used to be rampant in the south south, but has crept into other parts of the country. Knowing what the concerns are, the question then is, what is the government doing about it. In the previous government, there was loss of control of the situation and that was one of the major reasons why President Buhari was elected because of his military background. The government has made significant progress in this regard. But in recent times, the situation has reared its ugly head again and has become difficult to handle. The military folks have explained that alot of the arms being used by these people are coming from outside the country. They think that the folks that used to fight for Gaddafi and has lost out are coming down and finding solence here. The government has now recognised that things may be retrogressing and there has been meetings with the security Chiefs trying to resolve this. The good thing is that we have someone at the helm of affairs who is a military man. Some people have suggested alot of things. Some think the security chiefs should be changed, but I don’t know the thinking of the President because I am not privy to the classified information available to him. As for the resolution of the House, let me say that we have a very outstanding Speaker in person of Rep Femi Gbajabiamila and we are very proud to have him. He act on everything that happen almost immediately. As a result of the House resolution, there was a meeting between him, President of the Senate and President Buhari. After that meeting, he organised a meeting between all the committee that has to do with security in the House and the security chiefs where all these things were trashed out. His own take is that they must intensify efforts. I will summarise everything by saying that the security situation in Nigeria is still very challenging. I will also say that this is a listening government and a government that is ready to face the situation head on. There is the belief out there that there is stagnation in the armed forces leading to seeming frustration within the military. Some believe this is largely responsible for the current situation. What is your take on this? There is a school of thought that holds that view and that has been in the media for a while. If you look at their profile and what is usually done, you may agree with that view. But not being part of government, and not privy to security discussions, it is hard to know why the President felt that they should still be there. I am sure that he is probably reviewing this concern. Community engagement is one of the issues listed as part of the legislative agenda of the 9th House of Representatives. But we are to see any form of community engagement since the House was inaugurated. What is happening? I have also observe that and some of our constituents have also complained. However, the main challenge of the 9th Assembly is that in the past, budgets were not passed on time and when it is not passed on time, it cannot be implemented early and no matter what your policies are, Nigerians will not benefit from it and we will not move at the pace we are supposed to move. The focus of the 9th Assembly and the leadership was the quick passage of budget and changing the budget circle and that was not an easy task. It was very difficult because we were not rubber stamp. We spent a lot of time on that document and at the end, we were able to achieve that. If you look at the set up since we came back, you will discover that a lot of community engagement is on the agenda. We even have a committee on constituency outreach and they intends to visit different constituencies to ensure that there is federal government presence and that the Representatives are relating well with their constituencies so that people will benefit from constituency outreach. I agree with you that we have not seen much of that, but there is alot in the pipeline. Some members of the House are of the view that the budget of the House is too small for its operations, but Nigerians think otherwise. A lot of these things come as a result of inadequate information and failure of communication over the years about the National Assembly. The fact remain the fact. We know what the budget of Nigeria is and what the budget of the National Assembly is. The budget of the National Assembly is just about one percent of the budget of Nigeria and the budget of Nigeria is managed by the President and his Vice who are the elected officers in the Executive. However, a lot of what goes on in the National Assembly are not really seen by Nigerians. But from personal experience, I know that the salary is not really much. What many are talking about is the running cost of the constituencies and this is something that is done all over the world. From experience, if you have a constituency office which you should have, some of the money budgeted is used to run the constituency and provide services. Based on what the lawmakers do in their constituencies, I think the budget is worth while. The government said the increase in VAT was as a result of the need to raise funds to fund budget. But Nigerians believe that government should recover the huge sums of undeclared funds from MDAs fund the budget instead of imposing more hardship on the people. Those with that opinion have genuine reasons and I think they mean well. Governance is a balance. A lot of people in capital formation believe that if you increase tax, production output becomes low and would rather suggest that taxes are not increased. We know there are many Nigerians who are not paying tax. People believe that probably, the government should go after the people who are not paying rather than increase tax. There is also money that is being retrieved from corrupt people. Listening to Magu and others, my understanding is that when you take money and property from people, government cannot just wake up one day and spend that money because there are laws that guide that. Yes, there is a lot that has been taken from them that can actually finance the budget, but the government has been reluctant to use that money because some of the cases are still in court. But, there are huge sums of money generated by MDAs that are not remitted to government coffers. I think the introduction of TSA actually showed Nigerians that we have huge amount of money out there, but the Nigerian environment is very challenging. For example, if you follow the story of the IPPIS with the universities. Can you imagine the lecturers saying they don’t want to enrol? What that meant is that there is a lot of ghost workers and that must be why they are resisting it. I agree with you that if we know where these monies are, they should retrieved and used it for development and reduce the debt burden. But for reasons that are not clear, they have not been recovered. But if we get these money, we can use some of them rather than taking on new burden. Being a first time lawmaker, what are your plans for your constituents? Oshodi/Isolo 1 federal constituency is a great place contrary to what people hear about the place. I see myself as the face of Oshodi because I was born and raised there and had the privilege of going to be best schools. I am also privileged to have had scholarships from that Local government and also the Lagos state government for most of my career. Even when I wanted to go and do specialist training abroad, the government also gave me grant. What I am doing now is pay back. We embarked on this journey about 11 years ago because the local people loved what we do. I was doing health check for them every year and they appreciated it. But politics is a different thing and I decided to go fully into it and represent them. I contested two previous times and lost, but won this time. We have about 6 million people there and they know me very well and know that I have been there for them even when I had no access to government money. When I was campaigning, I didn’t promise them anything. I just told them that when I get there, we will do it together and they agreed. They were happy that I didn’t lie to them that I will do what I will not be able to do. When we got here, we found out that governance is by budget and that the legislature is not the executive and so you can’t do so much like a local government chairman or a state governor. But what you can do is to fight hard for your people in the constituency projects and that is what we have done. In this particular budget, there is lot that is coming to my constituency. We have construction of schools, health care centres, rehabilitation of health care among others. We have alot in education and health care. We are also going to do empowerment, poverty alleviation and vocational training. Oshodi/Isolo is more of a commercial area. The closure of the border must have affected the people in one way or the other. Personally, I think it has been positive and I can say there are lots of people that it has impacted their lives. There is no policy that is going to give you 100 percent in the polls. You can not have a situation where you lost totally control of your border. If you do, then you don’t have a country. That is what was happening because we lost control, not knowing what is coming in or going out. You had a situation where Republic of Benin where people don’t eat rice was very high on rice importation. It prevented Nigerians from eating Nigerian rice. But if you go to most places now, people eat Nigerian rice. The major effect of that border closure is on agriculture. It favour rice production. One thing that people may not be talking about is in poultry. There is a high demand of poultry products right now and they cannot even meet the demand because poultry products are not coming in. There is a market in Isolo where rice is sold and right now, the sale of domestic rice is booming. So, I think it has been positive. But we can not close the border permanently because it is going to be against WTO and other international laws. It is going to be temporary. There are laws that ECOWAS have that they are not following. The law is that if somebody import goods into your country and they are on transit, they are supposed to pay duties. But what they do in Republic of Benin is that they take their duties and the goods are then smuggled into Nigeria. But the ideal thing is that you are supposed to pay duties at every point of entry. Right now, I have a feeling that they will do the right thing because they know that they have suffered a lot. There is a believe out there that the 9th Assembly is a rubber stamp of the executive.