Auto mechanics and traders at the Apo Mechanic Village are counting the days as the authorities hands down a quit notice to relocate. GBENGA OMOKHUNU reports  Anxiety has gripped traders at Buffer Zone, Apo mechanic village, as they are waiting for the Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA) to decide their fate on when to finally move to their permanent site, where the authorities have provided them with land to ply their trade. Although FCDA, after issuing the traders eviction order, has given them a place to relocate to. However, government is still holding unto some issues begging for answers. Apo mechanic village is well known to most people and many residents frequent the mechanic village for one reason or the other. Sprawling on over 30,000 hectares, the vast land is a business and technology hub, where different auto spare parts are sold or cobbled together as millions of naira change hands on a daily basis through buying and selling. Vehicle parts of all brands and models can be found in Apo Mechanic Village, which has become one stop shop for auto spare parts and repairs. Apart from mechanics, some traders also sell their wares at the same mechanic village. Accessible and easy to describe, Apo Mechanic Village is also a meeting point of some sorts, where customers, mechanics and vehicle owners navigate how to fix auto problems or buy just about every day commodities. But with the eviction order handed down by the FCDA, all these activities will soon give way to a proposed road dualisation meant to pass through the heart of ever bustling auto mechanic village. The mechanics and traders have been plying their trade in a symbiotic relationship for a long time. Findings revealed that they relocated from the Garki District to Old Apo, very close to an area known as National Electricity Power Authority (NEPA) junction. That was some 38 years ago. From there, they were again forced by the authorities in 2006 to relocate, on grounds that they occupied a road corridor. With the new relocation order, the mechanics and traders are expected to move to a Buffer Zone, called Wasa, a very remote location. But the mechanics and traders are demanding a resettlement plan that will include the provision of infrastructure before they could quit their present location. They are also demanding compensation for their immovable assets that will be destroyed in the course of the planned road construction. The authorities have yet to respond to their demands. Most of the traders who spoke to The Nation, said they are willing to relocate but urged the authorities to hasten the relocation process. But some others are grumbling.  Speaking on the development, the Chairman of Apo Traders Association, Chief Chimeizie Ifeh narrated the pains and anguish in an encounter with our correspondent. Ifeh said so much money had been spent by his colleagues trying to negotiate the relocation order. According to him, some of the traders have had a heart attack, resulting in untimely death of a few of them.  Minister’s intervention The traders had, in 2010, written letters to the former FCT Minister, Senator Bala Mohammed, detailing their complaints and pleading with the the Minister to address some of their concerns. Ifeh said a number of meetings were held between the the Minister and representatives of the traders. He recalled Bala Mohammed made a number of promises, including a directive to the Urban and Regional Planning department to provide them with an alternative location. Ifeh said, “After that, the department asked the traders to pay some amount of money, which we did. And before his tenure expired, the former Minister ensured that we were given land in Wasa with a letter of intent. But other documents that we need to enable us enter the site were not given to us. “In 2010, we applied for a land with the name of the association because we cannot continue waiting for the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA). In 2015, the present Minister, Mohammed Bello, approved our application for a land and asked the urban and Urban and Regional Planning department to look for a space for us and they called us for a meeting. “We went for the meeting and they said we were to provide all the expenses involved. We agreed because we needed the land. But the land documents were not given to us. The National Assembly intervened and asked the Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA) to go and look for land and give to us. The National Assembly asked them how long would take for the land to be ready, and they said three months. “But nothing happened after the three months and we had to write another letter and stage so many protests. After all these, the land was later given to us at Wasa. We have spent more than N60 million on that project. The land was given to us in 2016 and they said we should sign an agreement concerning the land. Since then we are still waiting to sign the agreement. “We have had several meetings with the present Minister, but up till now, we are still waiting. The last meeting we had was in October 2019, where the Permanent Secretary advised us to be patient, that the agreement will be signed.” As the traders continue to wait for positive response from the authorities, there are indications that further delay in settling the matter may lead to a clash between the two parties. With the quit notice hanging over their heads, the traders appear to be losing patience while the authorities do not seem in a hurry to address the issue. Ifeh said the traders would still write to the Minister any time next week, to remind him of their plight. “We do not understand what is happening”, he said dejectedly. Officials of the FCDA were not willing to comment on the matter. However, the media assistant to the Executive Secretary of the FCDA, Richard Nduul, told our correspondent that construction work would soon reach the present location of the Apo Mechanic Village. “You should know that the traders are sitting on the right of way. The place is a public facility”, even as he could not give explanations why documentation in respect of the traders’ relocation was still being put in abeyance. 