Even 23 years after his death in 1997, Fela, Himself the Abami Eda (Uncommon Creature), continues to boast living vibes, that stand out as quotable quips, in almost all theatres of life. “E don beg me,” was one of those.  The military government back then had thrown Fela into the can, for alleged currency offences not a few swore were trumped up, to silence the maverick. But then, after a chance meeting with his gaoler, Mr. Justice Okoro Idogu, at a hospital, Fela, still serving his time, claimed an allegedly remorseful judge, perhaps quaking with guilt for alleged miscarriage of justice, had profusely apologized to him. Enter, “e don beg me” into Nigeria’s ever rambunctious street lingo, in all its pidgin majesty, gripping and cutting with laconic humour! The poor judge would later vehemently protest he did nothing of the sort.  But that did nothing to deny Fela his latest street glory. E don beg me — could that be the emerging news from Oyo State, over the local government crisis there?  Governor Seyi Makinde had dissolved the councils; and replaced elected chairmen and councillors with appointed aides.  But the federal Attorney-General and minister of Justice, referencing a December 2019 Supreme Court judgment, had told the governor to change tack; and advised the Oyo Police to ensure compliance. Though many of the “sacked” councillors appeared to be resuming peacefully, the state government sprung another judicial joker — an injunction, from a high court of Oyo State, for resumptions to freeze, until the matter before the court was disposed of. But between the injunction and next hearing date, a lot had flared.  There was violence, claiming one life, and a few limbs, in a fracas sparked by to-resume-or-not-to-resume tension, in one of Ogbomoso’s local councils. Then, the Oyo legislature, clearly in the governor’s partisan camp, neighed and whined: accusing the embattled councillors of “gross misconduct”, a charge the Oyo Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON) promptly dismissed as laughable. In-between had come gubernatorial tantrums that the elected councillors, fighting for their mandate, were only ogling the huge deposits, in the councils’ coffers, from the Federation Account — all is fair in war! But then came the court hearing and the government side came waving the white flag —  e don beg me? The government counsel announced his clients were exploring an out-of-court settlement on the matter.  Though the councillors’ lawyers didn’t oppose, they insisted they wouldn’t accept anything that would obstruct the smooth dispensation justice — a clear euphemism that anything other than  the full restoration of the councillors’ mandate was a unacceptable.  The court then adjourned till February 12 for feedback. By this offer, could the Makinde government be backing out of the case, after much executive bluff and judicial stratagem to stall the final verdict of the Supreme Court?  Time will tell. But even before then, a universal democratic truism: no executive hauteur, no matter how misguided, can trump the majesty of the law.  So, the earlier the Oyo government stopped stonewalling, the better. 