 Four persons have been reportedly killed following a riot that broke out over the killing of one Federick popularly known as Original. What led to the deaths could not be confirmed but witnesses said they were shot by security operatives dispatched to quell the riot. Residents of Azagba community, tipper drivers and some youths had blocked the Benin-Auchi highway protesting the killing of Federick. They set bonfires and destroyed several vehicles that attempted to drive through the barricade. They staged the protest for over four hours until armed policemen and soldiers dispersed them. A van conveying inmates from Correctional cCentres to court was attacked and the inmates released. Officials of the Correctional Centre were beaten and their rifle snatched. Sources said Federick was shot at a close range after an argument with the policeman whose identity was yet to be ascertained. It was gathered that the protest began after news filtered in that Federick has died. One of the prison officials who managed to run into the bush with wounds was rescued by some residents and taken to a private hospital. Spokesman for the Nigeria Correctional Service, Aminu Suleiman, who confirmed the attack said details of the attack were still sketchy. Suleiman said the officials were going for official duty when they were attacked. A source in the area said the Warden was found inside the bush with a deep injury in his hand and bleeding seriously. Edo Police spokesman, DSP Chidi Nwabuzor, said the policeman that fired the shot was an Inspector attached to the Department of Operations in Delta State Police Command. DSP Nwabuzor said the Inspector was on an escort duty attached to a construction firm. Nwabuzor said they had a misunderstanding with a landlord who was later shot but died while being rushed to the University of Benin Teaching Hospital. He said, “That was what led to the riot and all the criminal activities. A rifle of the Correctional Service Officers was snatched. Investigation is on and we will make the public aware of our findings. On reports of killing of four persons, Nwabuzor said the police did not shoot or carried out arrest of innocent persons.