The Ekiti State Police Command on Sunday said it has begun the process for the recruitment of 800 special Constables that will work with conventional police to curtail the spate of insecurity in the country. This was contained in a statement in Ado-Ekiti by the Command Public Relation Officer, Sunday Abutu on behalf of the State’s Police Commissioner, Mr Asuquo Amba. Amba said the forms have been distributed to all police stations across 16 council areas of the state where interested applicants could procure before presenting themselves for screening at an appointed date. The Inspector General of Police, Me Mohammed Adamu , had last month gave the directive to all police commands to liaise with stakeholders from each town and local government for the recruitment of the special operatives. The recruitment, which was in tandem with the community policing strategy of President Muhammadu Buhari, was targeted at reinforcing the security personnel, to be able to mitigate the rising waves of killings, kidnappings and banditry across the nation.  However, the statement didn’t quote the Police Commissioner as stating the exact number of operatives to be recruited, but a source within the top heirarchy of the command disclosed that 50 personnel will be recruited in each of the 16 local government areas of the state. It stated: “This is to inform the general public that in line with the approval and the directives of the federal government through the inspector General of police, Mohammed Adamu, for the recruitment of special Constables into Nigeria police force to enhance the community policing policy nationwide, the commissioner of police, has given a directive for the exercise to kick off across the 16 local government area of Ekiti state. “The recruitment forms are now available in all the divisional police stations across the state. All interested volunteers are to walk into any divisional police station closer to them within their local governments and pick the form at no cost. “Applicants must be between the age of 21-50 years, with willingness to serve the community. Applicants must be resident within their respective communities. “Applicants must be willing to sacrificially serve their respective communities for the purpose and aims of community policing policy with or without remuneration. “Interested applicants are to, as a matter of urgency, go to the nearest police station within their local Governments and pick the form as the screening date will soon be announced,” the statement concluded.