  The Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Abubakar Adamu, has said that more trouble awaits members of Ansaru terrorists group and bandits terrorising Birnin-Gwari area of Kaduna State. The IGP stated this in Kaduna on Friday when he visited the troops injured from the Wednesday’s attack on the police operational helicopter in Kuduru village, Birnin Gwari Local Government Area of Kaduna State. The police boss, who was represented by the Deputy Inspector General in charge of Operation, AbdulMajeed Ali, recalled Wednesday’s assault on the terrorists’ camp in Kuduru, saying it was just the first of its kind. The police chief vowed that many others will follow. However, the IGP confirmed that the force lost another injured personnel, identified as LP Sgt. Idris, who died on Friday morning. The death of Sgt. Idris brings to two, the number of personnel lost by the force, while 13 others were receiving medical attention at two medical facilities in Kaduna. The DIG Operation said he was sent by the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Abubakar Adamu, to see the condition of the gallant troops, who were injured during the operation that was carried out three days ago. “And I am very happy that what I saw was very satisfying as the injured men are very stable; even the doctor treating them said there is no need to worry as they are responding to treatment. “The Inspector General of Police is very disturbed but I assure that we will give them the best of treatment as we will still go into their issue to see how fast they can respond to treatment. “Unfortunately, we lost another personnel, which increased the number of death to two, whose names are Muhammad Abubakar and Sgt. Idris. “It is a continuous operation as this is not the first one; it is just that this is a very special one because the police has woken up and are equal to the task of fighting every bandit in the country until it is cleared. “Thirteen of the men were injured, four will be discharged today(Friday), while the rest will continue to be under observation, he said. Speaking on the operation, the IGP said the Ansaru terrorists group have extended their tentacles to Birnin-Gwari and a large area of Pandongari in Niger State too. According to him, “We have taken note of them for a very long time and we had put a lot of intelligence on them. However, the operation in Kuduru happens to be the first in the line up of our operations to wipe out terrorists from Birnin-Gwari. “So, we want to assure Nigerians that very soon, Kaduna-Birnin Gwari road will be passable very soon and Nigerians will have freedom of movement everywhere,” he said.  