By: Khadijat Saidu, Birnin Kebbi  Kebbi State Government has inaugurated 13 Professors and eight Ph.D holders to serve as part time chairmen of Local Government Education Authorities (LGEAs). Each don will head the education authority in his/her local government area. Governor Atiku Bagudu performed the inauguration at the Banquet Hall, Presidential Lodge, Birnin Kebbi last week after local government chairmen invested with the power to do so by law, consented and conceded the mandate to him. Bagudu described the event as a landmark in the history of Kebbi state in mobilising top echelon of the academia to partake actively in remedying the challenges of learning in primary schools. He commended all the Professors for accepting to serve the state in the capacity of part time chairmen of local government education authorities and the zeal to meeting the desired goals. Bagudu described systemic delay” in the education sector, arising from limitation of funds, averring that such challenges must be tackled decisively with immediacy.” he Governor urged the part time chairmen to contact him directly on any matter in the course of their assignment, pledging to bear responsibility of any eventuality.  He stated that the dons inaugurated were highly qualified professionals with the requisite experience to change the education sector for the better. The newly inaugurated LGEA chairmen are: Professor Ibrahim Husaini, Aliero LGEA;
Dr. Muhammad Aminu Bui Arewa LGEA; Professor Rabi Mohammad, Argungu LGEA; Professor Muhammad Aminu Bayawa, Augie LGEA; Professor Ibrahim Muhammad Bani Zagga, Bagudo LGEA; Professor Umar Aliyu Aliyu Chika, Birnin Kebbi LGEA; Dr. Sama’ila Kamba, Dandi LGEA; Dr. Nasini Muhammad Baba, Danko/Wasagu LGEA; Professor Muhammad Garba Mahuta, Fakai LGEA; Dr. Muhammad Shalla Bello, Gwandu LGEA and Professor Suleiman Khalid, Jega LGEA. Others are: Professor Faruku Aliyu Kalgo, Kalgo LGEA; Professor Abubakar Danbaba, Koko/Besse LGEA; Dr. Balarabe Isah Adamu, Maiyama LGEA; Professor Umar Abubakar Birnin-Yauri, Ngaski LGEA; Professor Sanusi Muhammad, Sakaba LGEA; Dr. AbulBasit Ahmad Atuwo, Shanga LEGA; Dr. Sodangi Umar, Suru LGEA; Professor Sadiq Abdullahi Yelwa, Yauri LGEA and Dr. Sani Dantani Manga Zuru LGEA.