Contemporary artist, Hermann Ogbeme is famous for his Ape and Paper series. He has made a success of the theme, since he began to explore them over a decade. In this chat with Udemma Chukwuma, in his studio at Ikotun, Lagos, he talks about what gave rise to a new movement on the art scene, as well as his future plans  If you have been following art activities in Nigeria, you would notice there is a new conceptual movement among Nigerian artists, following a global trend, mainly based on ideas and content. Hermann Ogbeme, one of the artists catching this new creative bug, said many artistes are moving toward conceptual independence, from the traditional practice of what art barons dictated. “Global influence, social media are exposing everybody to seeing what other people are doing out there,” said the artist, whose works were not accepted some years ago due to their political messages. “If you want global acceptance you need to follow certain standards. But art is going in a lot of directions now. Some people are still doing traditional Africa Art. Some artists are saying they are educated, exposed and why should they be restricted to certain definitions by certain people on what they should create?” he added. Installation art was not accepted as a form of art some years back, even in academy circles, he noted. But today, he added, things have changed. Artists are exploring whatever material available to express their thought. “What is installation art? It is art that is temporary, transient.   Today, people are embracing it; and artists are becoming more daring, in terms of idea and medium.” What brought about this movement? “Things have improved; I think it has to do with the global focus on African Art, and there is an upsurge of curators, independent curators; art dealers here and there. Some of them metamorphosed to galleries. It has been happening like that, you just have people come up with galleries because of the business side of it without taking strong consideration about the art aspect of it and they crash out.” Talking on his work and the theme he is working on currently, Ogbeme who just returned to full-time studio practice after years’ break, is exploring a theme he called the Ape Series. His work examines environmental, political and societal issues. “I look at socio-political and cultural issues critically,” he asserted, “at a particular time, it made it very difficult for my art to be accepted, because like the 2002 exhibition I had, the collectors that came for the show told me they loved what I was doing, and I asked them why don’t you collect the work? They said ‘I can’t; because it’s like you are pointing a finger at me’. During the show, there was a landscape painting which depicted a tree with fruits, titled: The Land of Plenty, said the artist who is well-exhibited in Nigerian and overseas. What new idea is Ogbeme bringing back to the public and what did he miss while away? “What I am bringing back that is new is what the society springs up.  I talk about what is happening in the society. How I talk about it or how express myself about it depends on the medium that I am using at a particular time. I am doing oil; I have a visual vocabulary that I am used to. As I continue to practice, my visual vocabulary will improve. I am back to painting my Ape series. Though I have not branded them as Ape series, I use them as a metaphor. And my paper series, which has to do with documentation in our society, history and having a reference. “That I wasn’t painting full time, I had my mind working, society is the vehicle that drives my art. A lot of things are going on in the society. The cardinal point is that we are talking about corruption, and we are talking about the impact of corruption in our society if you look around my studio,” he said pointing at some of the works on the walls of his studio, “you will see some paintings that are like metaphor to what is going in the society. If you look at the subjects ordinary, it will just be like apes eating and having a good.” With the outcome of things now in the art circle, Ogbeme said he would revisit the themes he couldn’t then. “I feel I should express myself the way I have always wanted. I studied Mass Communication, I have a stint of public relations, I am a journalist of some sort, but now I practice visual journalism. The thing about art is about your personal experience, which matters. Everything you experience come to bear on your art. When I want to deal with any issue I investigate it properly and capture it on my canvas.” The Ape series, which he is using to “examine societal issues, the leadership, the followership, our aspiration, how we partake in correction without knowing that we are,” will be on display for public viewing “as soon as they come together.” “My art is my voice,” he insisted.  “It is the only thing that I have, so an exhibition will give me an audience. How everybody contributes to plundering our treasury. because if you have a relative that is in government and the guy is loaded, probably he is stealing the common wealth.” Born on the 27 May 1967 in Jakpa-Warri, Delta State, Ogbemi Heymann’s education, both formal and informal, is a broad spectrum of different interests, from strict academics to technical matters. He had his professional education between 1988 and 1996. His predilection for reading and intellectual discourse, and also his interest in polemical writing, landed him in the School of Professional Studies of the Institute of Continuing Education (ICE) Benin City, where he studied Journalism and was awarded a Diploma in Mass Communication, after a brief spell at the Public Affair Department of Guinness Nigeria PLC as an Industrial Trainee. Between 1991 and 1996, Ogbemi responded to a deep-seated yearning for Art when he studied painting at the Auchi Polytechnic and was awarded an HND in painting. After his mandatory stint as a National Youth Service Corps member in Kebbi State in 1997, he settled down to private studio practice. He is open to fresh ideas. Thus, he has taken part in such workshops as ‘Rain Forest installation’, under the auspices of Goethe Institute, Lagos; ‘Harmattan’, organized by Professor Bruce Onobrakpeya, and so forth. 