Real   change  came for the EU and UK during the week when the EU Parliament finally agreed the Brexit Deal and Britain left  the EU on January 31.  Also    while  the impeachment of the US President Donald Trump was gathering  steam in the US senate, the US President found time to announce his Middle East  Plan   midwifed by his son in law,  which was  nothing but a one sided plan  to buy out the rights of the Palestinian  with  huge American dollars, and create  the impression of looking for peace when all  that was being done was to provoke  the helpless Palestinians. During this same week over 40 Heads of Government gathered in Israel  to commemorate 75 years since the Germans under Adolf Hitler murdered over   one million Jews  at  Auschwitz  in the Holocaust just  as the Anglican Church Lagos Diocese at  the Marina  continued with its choice of the tune of Hitler’s Germany  as its Diocesan song. All  these actions on the world stage this week  have   three things  in common.  They  are brazenly  political for the simple  fact  that politics  is ubiquitous   either  with diplomacy or in gas chambers. The three have a rich  historical  background that warns that  history  cannot  be ignored . And  all  three smirk  of impunity or  levity or even  callous  indifference  and I really  mean that and will  explain  the   harsh  words on the three issues. First  on the conclusion of Brexit, there is no doubt  that the UK is deeply polarized as the Brexit vote was a  narrow  one   with 52 %  for Brexit and 48%  for  Remain. But  the  Remain machine tried to sabotage Brexit  and leaders like Boris Johnson and Nickel  Farage  showed  exceptional  tenacity and persistence  to see Brexit  through and they  should be commended  for their politics of  persistence in showing that  the majority  must  have its way. This has always been  the way and manner of British politics with its first past the post  democracy  which at  the end was what the consummation of Brexit was all about. From  Jan 31, 2020 the UK   became an Island unto itself, separated in word and deed from Mainland  Europe  geographically   as it   has always   been  by the  Ocean    but   now politically    too and it must now grapple and wrestle with the   economic and demographic consequences   of its actions in fulfilling the terms and conditions of its Brexit   strategies  and decisions. On  the revelation of the Trump Middle East Plan in the middle of his impeachment, it is not difficult to fathom  why. One  could  call it  diversionary and  show  that even  the Palestinians have a price in spite  of their  hatred of the Israelis.  But  it is certainly  a bribe  which the Palestinians must perceive rightly  as an  affront  or insult,  because it  does not return their lands seized in 1967 during the Six Days War  to them.  In  addition both Trump and his  guest the Israeli  leader and current  PM Benjamin Netanyahu   have tenure  issues as they  are  both  not sure of being around for  sometime to implement their dollar  dangling bribe to split  the ranks of Palestinian leadership. Netanyahu is facing bribery  charges and has just been refused immunity by the Israeli  Parliament  and must   face  his  charges if he has any respect  for transparency  and the rule of law as he should as an elected leader in Israel. On  Trump’s impeachment trial there is  no doubt that  history may repeat  itself  and he may  not be removed from office  as indeed no American  president  has  ever been so  removed in the senate.  But  again the fight to call or  not call  witnesses will  decide how fast or slow this senate  impeachment   trial  will  be.  Then  there is the issue of the Bolton book, ‘ the Room where it happens ‘.  It is only in the US that a security  chief  will  breach his oath of confidentiality  to publish  a book implicating a president who  recently  fired him. The Democrats  see things differently and would honor and give  credibility  to  any information from any quarters that  buttress  their impeachment charges of abuse of power and obstruction of justice   against   the US President.  They  however meet  their match  in the Republicans lawyers  who  have rattled the democrats with searching answers and observations that  make the impeachment charges less than legal and credible.  Anyway  the impeachment  trial  continues and one   cannot    but wonder  if  at  the end, the Impeachment  Managers  themselves will not  be in the dock   for the   charges  they have so swiftly    and    hurriedly   made  available  to the senate  to ensure that Trump  will not contest the 2020 presidential  elections;  while shielding their presumed but not yet  elected presidential  candidate Joe  Biden  and   his  son from any questioning  when  the two  are  blatantly    and with impunity, at the center of the impeachment  charges against  the US president. The 75th Anniversary  of  the deaths at the gas chamber at Auschwitz was a reminder to the world of man’s inhumanity to  man in the way the Germans  under  Hitler’s   Nazi  Germany   carried   out the  death of 6m Jews. This particular  remembrance came at a time when anti  Semitism  is on the rise globally.  The   German  nation since unification in 1990  has  been trying  to atone  and ensure that a horror and hatred like the Holocaust  never  repeats itself.  Retaining  the tune of its national anthem  is part of that  compunction and mortification.  Again  I do not see the sense in the Anglican Church in Lagos Diocese in Nigeria in 2020  singing  a new Diocesan tune set like  the anthem  that the Nazis used to  kill  6m  Jews in gas chambers  during  Adolf Hitler’s reign of terror  in World War 11.  I  say  the choice of that  tune and the refusal  to take another look  at  it, shows  a lack  of humanity on the part of those who  made the choice. It  shows clearly  an  insensitivity and   nonchalance for  history and  the horror  of the Holocaust.  I   feel  it is a Christian  duty to point this out and will  persist  if  the impunity  and  nonchalance  of those who  made the choice  persists,   for  the simple  reason that  the tune is a recall of horror  and a disgrace to  humanity in being used  as a compulsory  Diocesan  song. At  a time when  Nigerians especially  in our part of the nation are increasingly bothered about their  security and safety of life and property,   religious  institutions like the Anglican Church in Lagos should provide  succor,  sanctuary  and   spiritual  leadership.   A  Diocesan song is  like a national anthem and should be sung with  gusto,  love and respect.  Recalling the Holocaust  during such  a song in Nigeria is an avoidable  and historical distraction and an ugly one too because  it is in bad  taste  and  very  lacking in respect for human  dignity and love of humanity.  Once again long live the Federal  Republic of Nigeria. 