 The decision of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to slash Nigeria’s 2020 growth forecast to two per cent surprised  many analysts and financial pundits. The antagonists of the forecast believed that Nigeria’s economy will rise above the new two per cent per annual growth projection by the Fund. In an emailed report to investors, Afrinvest West Africa Limited, an investment and research firm, said last week,  the International Monetary Fund (the IMF or the Fund) published its end-of-mission  statement on the economy following consultations with fiscal and monetary authorities and other relevant stakeholders. “While a comprehensive report is yet to be published, the summary of the Fund’s findings captured interesting themes on the state and direction of the economy. The key highlight of the summary is the downward revision of Nigeria’s 2020 growth forecast to two per cent from 2.5 per cent in its January 2020 update due to low crude oil prices. However, on a positive note, the Fund acknowledged recent fiscal policy reforms by the Federal Government, specifically the Finance Act, the Deep Offshore Production Sharing Contract Act and the return to the January-December budget cycle,” Managing Director/CEO Afrinvest West Africa Limited, Ike Chioke, said. In the report titled: ‘IMF’s 2020 Article IV Consultation on Nigeria: Growth Forecast Revised Downward to two per cent’, the IMF applauded progress in ease of doing business, governance and power sector reforms. In other notable areas, such as fiscal and monetary policies, the Fund provides recommendations.  The Fund’s sharp cut to growth forecast came as a surprise, even though we expect economic recovery to remain sluggish in 2020. We are a bit more optimistic on growth given our estimate of 2.4 per cent in 2020, which still represents declining per capita income in the near term. On the external sector, we both share a dim outlook as the Fund observed that sustained current account deficits and declining reserves, amid increased risk of capital flow reversals, have elevated external sector vulnerabilities. Also, the Fund noted the need for sustained reforms to boost non-oil revenues to reduce fiscal deficit, which continue to be funded by the CBN beyond permissible limits (not more than five per cent of previous year’s actual revenue) stated in the Fiscal Responsibility Act (FRA 2007). The analysts explained that in line with our recommendation in the report, the Fund encouraged the Federal Government to leverage the low-yield environment to meet its financing obligations. “On monetary policy, the Fund proposed that further tightening through conventional means is required to rein in mounting domestic and external pressures from large amounts of maturing CBN OMO bills. In this regard, an interesting perspective that caught our eye is securitising overdrafts to provide more long-term government debt instruments, which would better help in managing system liquidity,” they said. As predicted by the Fund, the Consumer Price Index report released last week by the National Bureau of Statistics showed that headline inflation increased to a 21-month high of 12.1 per cent year-on-year (Y-o-Y) in January 2020, from 12 per cent in the previous month. Similarly, core inflation rose to 9.4 per cent Y-o-Y from 9.3 per cent and food inflation was higher at 14.9  Y-o-Y from 14.7 per cent. “The uptrend in price pressures in January is unlikely to be short-lived. We believe the land border closure, insecurity in food planting regions and the upward review of VAT would drive inflation higher in the coming months. If these persist, combined with the proposed adjustment to electricity tariff in April, we expect inflation to reach a monthly average of 13.7 per cent in 2020 from 11.4 per cent in 2019,” Chioke said.