Recently, I was in a mini supermarket off Balogun Bus-stop, Awolowo Road, Ikeja, when a woman came to return a sachet of powered Milo beverage. She had earlier bought it, claiming it was not the original product.
My antennae immediately went up. Turning sharply towards the aggrieved customer, I asked her how she knew that the Milo was fake? Eagerly taking the product from her hand, I scrutinised the sachet. However, nothing on it indicated it was a fake product.
The best before date was clearly printed as BB 11-20 while the manufactured date was M 01-20. Another set of numbers 00131478G came after the manufactured date. It was indicated on the sachet that the product was prepared in Nigeria by Nestle Nigeria PLC, 22/24 Industrial Avenue, Illupeju Lagos.
Looking at the woman again, I asked what made her believe that the product was fake and she explained that the original Milo sachet usually has the photo of a boy on it but the one she bought had the photo of a girl on it. Hearing that, the retailer defended himself and the brand, insisting he sells only authentic products.
The woman insisted on dropping the Milo and getting a full refund. I then ventured into the store. I took a closer look at the row of Milo sachet on display and observed that while some had the photo of a girl throwing a ball, others had the photo of a boy. What is wrong with that? I murmured aloud.
As the aggrieved customer was still arguing with the retailer, another customer walked in, over hearing the argument and said she will not even go near Milo beverage as there is a video currently circulating, showing Fulanis poisoning Milo and transporting the products to the Eastern part of the country. According to her, a man in the video is seen to be poisoning the product and confessed to be transporting them to Onitsha.
Besides, there has been a video which went viral showing men scooping and packaging fake Milo. That particular video seems to have emanated from Malaysia. Nestle Indonesia commented on the viral video of the fake Milo production. It assured consumers, saying the case had been handled by Malaysian authority.
In Nigeria, consumers of the beverage want explanations and answers. The manufacturers are not talking and they cannot claim to be ignorant of all these.
The same applies with the leading electronic brands in Nigeria. LG and Samsung are the worst hit, especially LG products. Most consumers allege that the only way to avoid buying fake LG product is by buying directly from FOUANI stores owned by the major distributor of LG products in most African countries. Some people claim that some of the LG outlets even sell fake LG products and that it is very difficult to distinguish the original from the fake product.
There have been reports of even consumers purchasing fake LG products from leading Online shops. Research has indicated that it is hard to identify a fake LG TV while some consumers have reported buying LG TVs with ‘Super LG’ logo on its carton only to find out they purchased the fake one.
A Cconsumer posed a question online. ‘LG Refrigerator in the market, fake or what’? According to the potential buyer, on getting to market, he saw different LG refrigerators with different logos both on the fridges and their cartons. He became so confused he could not ascertain the authentic one. Checking on LG website, he noticed that the model names he saw in the market were not on the website.
In all these, LG has not given any official response. One analyst, Ikechukwu Eze, said that some manufacturers prefer keeping quiet about counterfeit fearing that making it public will deter customers from patronising the product as they will be afraid of buying the wrong one. But is that the right approach?
During the celebration of their 60th anniversary, the Chief Executive Officer of the company, Raymond Murphy, humorously said that it was even a compliment to them that producers are faking their product. The truth is that no one fakes a bad product.
He urged consumers to refrain from patronising substandard foam products, warning that they could cause body cancer due to adulterated polyurethame and TDI used in the production.
Giving a warning in Lagos, the CEO noted that fake foam products have flooded Nigerian markets, revealing that the company and even the economy loses much annually to fakers whom he regrets derive much benefits in faking their products.
Just like Mouka Foam, HP admitted to the existence of counterfeit and is working assiduously to eliminate it. “Businesses are at risk of being sold counterfeit print supplies than ever before, as global economies lose as much as $3 billion yearly to counterfeit products,” according to a recent HP-commissioned study by Harris Interactive.
According to the report, market trends showed an increase in counterfeiting, even as enforcement scores significant wins.
In Nigeria, HP, in collaboration with security agents, has raided several hideouts in Lagos, where counterfeit HP consumables were sold and arrest was effected.
From fake handbags to mock medicines, the business of counterfeit goods is one of the largest underground industries in the world and it is rapidly growing. With cheap overhead, high profits, and cloak-and-dagger business style, these global black market industries are here to stay. A counterfeit good is a product that closely resembles another product in order to trick customers into buying. Officials and authorities struggle to control the activities of the criminal organisations that are producing and marketing counterfeit goods. Stopping these enterprises seems doubtful because of the increasingly aggressive behaviours of fraudulent distributors. The best way to stop the manufacturing of imitated products is to inform consumers of the potential harm these products pose to consumers and the economy. If people refuse to purchase knock-off products, these rogue industries will suffer economically and ultimately disappear.
Electronic industry
The lucrative market of counterfeiting has greatly impacted the electronics industry. As counterfeiters continue to produce fraudulent electronic components, the reputable electronic companies are faced with threatening statistics and slumping sales due to these knockoff parts. For example, between 5% and 20% of global electronic parts in an industry’s supply chain are estimated to be counterfeit parts. These imitated components are making their way into American distribution supply chains, like Apple and Target.
Counterfeit goods and the Internet
While sales of counterfeit goods rapidly increase, so do the fraudulent sales of counterfeit products on the Internet. Because online auction sites, like eBay, have no warranties of authenticity and quality control is nonexistent, counterfeiters can easily distribute misleading or fake products around the globe. The website eBay.com describes itself as “the world’s largest personal online trading community” (Levin, 2009, 495). This statement might be accurate; however, they forgot to mention they have become the largest online venue for counterfeit goods. Since 1998, the eBay community has evolved into a nation of 81 million visitors each month. Experts advise people not to use online auction sites because they can potentially harm legitimate merchants and leave buyers and sellers with great risks of uncertainty when it comes to trading over the Internet. .
Counterfeit medicines
Lastly, and most importantly, people should be aware of counterfeit medicines. Imitating pharmaceutical formulations poses a serious and fast-spreading threat to the health and safety of the people. Like retail merchants, counterfeit medicines create multitudes of problems for legitimate drug manufacturers by undermining their reputations and revenues. High priced lifestyle medicines like drugs for treating erectile dysfunction, fat reducers and sleep remedies, in addition to antibiotics, anticancer drugs, and inexpensive versions of painkillers or histamines can be counterfeited.
Conclusion
All things considered, counterfeit goods are extremely harmful to the health and safety of people. Counterfeit products are not only harmful to the economy, but also to each individual’s well being. It is important that consumers understand the multi-faceted complexities of counterfeit markets: the economic impact on businesses, the enormity of counterfeit internet sales, and the significance that counterfeit medications present in health and safety issues.
Manufacturers should come out and inform and reassure consumers of the genuiness and safety of their products. If their products are being faked, they should admit it and tell consumers how to identify the authentic product. They cannot solve the problem by shying away from the truth. By spreading the word about the harm caused by counterfeit goods, people could potentially put an end to these lucrative industries of counterfeit products.