Lawal Ogienagbon  MINISTERS of God do not have troops in the real sense of the word, but they command an army of worshippers. If you like you can refer to those worshippers as soldiers. Indeed, Charles Wesley whose brother John founded the Methodist faith, referred to them as such in his hymn titled: ‘’Soldiers of Christ, Arise’’, which is drawn from Ephesians 6: 10-18. Verse 13 thereof urges Christians to put on the ‘’whole armour of Christ that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand’’. Though Nigeria is a secular state, it is peopled by men and women of faith. There are atheists too. That is the beauty of our country. A nation where parents and their children may not share the same faith. Even couples too do belong to different religions. The man may be a Muslim and the wife a Christian or vice versa. Yet, they live in peace, raising their children, who also of their volition, may decide not to toe either parent’s religion. Our religious differences have never been an issue. We have always been tolerant of one another’s religion whether as members of the same family or community. When the Muslims are celebrating the end of Ramadan or the Greater Bairam festival popularly known as Ileya, the Christians join them and when Christians are celebrating Easter or Christmas, the Muslims also celebrate with them. They wine and dine together without a third party knowing that they are not members of the same family. We did not choose our friends on the basis of our faith. We related with others because of our love for them. What bound us was not our religion, but our friendship and the strength of character of the other person. We had friends who stuck to us closer than brothers. Many of us still have such friends despite the ruin laid upon the country by Boko Haram insurgents. Since 2009, the sect has laid siege to the Northeast killing, maiming, kidnapping and looting. Why is it doing all these? The truth is even the sect itself does not have a plausible answer for its wilful actions. In one breathe, it says it is against western education which it tags as ‘’sin’’ and in another, it  claims that it is all in its propagation of Islam. Its actions have torn societal fabric. The country is in the grips of an ‘’evil day’’ amid the prevailing insecurity over which President Muhammadu Buhari, Senate President Ahmad Lawan and Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila met in Abuja on Monday. The meeting followed the National Assembly’s rancorous sessions last week on the burning national issue during which many lawmakers called for the sacking of the Service chiefs. Yesterday, the National Assembly held a joint session on the vexed issue.  As Boko Haram is doing its own thing, so are kidnappers, robbers, bandits, militants and ritual killers wreaking havoc on the country. Things have come to a head, leaving renowned Pastor E. A. Adeboye, General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) with no choice than to hearken to the call of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) to protest the killings in the land last Sunday. Of recent, Rev Lawan Andimi, CAN Chairman in Michika Local Government Area of Adamawa State;  a mother of two Mrs Bunmi Ataga and a seminarian were killed after their abduction. The bodies of Mrs Ataga and the seminarian were dumped by the roadside and their families told where to find them. The late Mrs Ataga’s daughters are still being held by the abductors who are demanding a N20million ransom from their medical doctor father.  CAN was particularly flustered by the death of Andimi, who was beheaded by his abductors. In a green colour French suit, shirt and his trademark bow tie, Daddy G.O as Adeboye is fondly called, led worshippers from the RCCG National Headquarters in Ebute Meta, Lagos on the ‘’Prayer Walk’’ against insecurity. Raising a placard with the inscription: ‘’All souls are precious to God’’, Adeboye, a reserved pastor not giving to the frivolities some priests are known for, was surrounded by the ‘’soldiers of Christ’’. Even the late Joseph Stalin, the Soviet dictator, who once asked: ‘’The Pope? How many divisions has he got?’’ would have been envious of the Adeboye road work in his grave. The Adeboye march was a bold statement on the state of the nation. It is sad that we have sunk into such a mess that Adeboye, who is usually guarded in his actions, was moved to publicly identify with a protest against these inanities. The protest is a call on the government to wake up from its slumber and address the security challenge frontally. The main job of any government is to secure its citizens against internal and external aggression. The people can only pray for their leaders, they cannot do the government’s job for it, so the resolution of this thorny issue lies in its hands.   ‘Will these officers’ removal make a difference in the ongoing war to redeem our country from the rampaging marauders? Well, it is time up for them having been in office since 2015’  Will their exit change anything? THERE is a clamour for the removal of the Service chiefs because of the prevailing insecurity in the land. Those demanding the sack of the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Gen Abayomi Olonishakin, Chief of Army Staff (COAS) Lt Gen Tukur Buratai, Chief of Naval Staff (CNS) Vice Marshal Ibok-Ete Ekwe Ibas and Chief of Air Staff (CAS) Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar believe that these military brass have overstayed in office. These officers, they claimed, no longer have what it takes to prosecute the anti-terrorism war. Only President Muhammadu Buhari knows why he is still keeping them. No doubt, with what is happening in the country today, fresh hands and ideas are needed to combat insurgency and other crimes. My fear is will these officers’ removal make a difference in the ongoing war to redeem our country from the rampaging marauders? Well, it is time up for them having been in office since 2015.