The federal government has revealed that cancer is responsible for at least 72,000 deaths yearly in the country, and about 102,000 new cases of cancer are estimated to present itself annually. This was disclosed by the Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, during a press briefing to commemorate this years’ World Cancer Day. He explained that projections from Globocan show that lower-income countries were home to 57 percent of new cases and 65 percent of cancer deaths in 2012. Their share of incidence is expected to increase to approximately 70 percent of the predicted 24 million people who will be diagnosed with cancer annually by 2050. He said, “According to the Nigeria National Cancer Prevention and Control Plan (2018-2022), Cancer is responsible for 72,000 deaths in Nigeria every year with an estimated 102,000 new cases of cancer annually. “The top five cancer burdens in Nigeria are Prostate, Liver, Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, Colorectal and Pancreatic for the male and Breast, Cervical, Liver, Colorectal and Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma for the female. Of these, breast and cervical cancers are responsible for approximately 50.3 percent of all cancers in Nigeria. “Our dream is to be able to have routine screening for all form of cancers and diseases, including diabetes and hypertension. That is why we are propagating the expansion of the primary health care network. Routine screening in some countries is done free of charge for citizens above a certain age and we want to be able to do that also. “Prevention is not only better than cure, it is cheaper, and because there is no area of medicine that treatment is so expensive than in the treatment of cancer. The radiotherapy equipment is extremely expensive; also the drugs are very costly and almost unaffordable for certain members of our communities. “Surgical Oncology is highly specialized and where we don’t have too many people. The best bet, if we don’t have the strength to address this disease, is to be early in identifying them and dealing with them early”. He further added: “In pursuance of international best practices, wherein there are specified health facilities that manage specific diseases, government has designated seven of its Federal Tertiary Health Institutions as Oncology Centres of Excellence with a view to upgrading them to be able to manage invasive cancer and cancer-related illnesses. These are UBTH, Benin, LUTH, Lagos, UCH, Ibadan, UNTH, Enugu, UDUTH, Sokoto, ABUTH, Zaria and National Hospital, Abuja. “In support of the WHO 2030 goal towards the elimination of cervical cancer as a public health problem, Federal Ministry of Health, Clinton Health Access Initiative and Unitaid recently signed a two and half year innovative grant that will bring artificial intelligence and affordable screening to fight cervical cancer. “Seven countries are selected namely; India, Kenya, Malawi, Rwanda, South Africa, Zambia and Nigeria. This will serve as a scale up programme to improve cervical cancer screening. In Nigeria, three states are benefitting in the first phase. These are Kaduna, Lagos and Rivers. Some preliminary works have been done while training of personnel to carry out screening will commence in February, 2020 in these states. “Government is partnering the American Cancer Society (ACS) and Clinton Health Access Initiative (CHAI) to make 16 chemotherapy medications available at 65 percent cheaper than current market cost. This was launched on 29th October, 2019. “Seven (7) teaching hospitals are participating in this programme and these are: Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital, Zaria; Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital, Kano; Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Lagos; National Hospital, Abuja. “Others are – Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital, Ile Ife; University College Hospital, Ibadan; and University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital, Enugu”. He explained that there is an ongoing engagement with other organizations to bring additional medicines including biologics and immunotherapy at less the present cost in the market. This, according to him will ensure regular and unbroken supply of these drugs. In his remark, the Minister of State for Health, Senator (Dr) Olorunnimbe Adeleke Mamora, explained that the ministry will leave no stone unturned to ensure that the common man on the street has access to affordable cancer diagnosis and treatment facility across the country. “It is my hope that all of you especially the media will help us to ensure that the message gets to the grass root. A lot has been done and so many programmes are under way to ensure that we reverse the current unacceptable trend of cancers in Nigeria. “The theme for the 2020 World Cancer Day “I am and I will’ do my part to reduce the burden of cancer in Nigeria is apt. It is a call to us as a government as well as individuals to work together to achieve more in cancer control,” he said.