Eli EDREMODA, Warri  It was a gathering of who is who in the Lagos socio-political firmament at the Sheraton Hotel, Ikeja, Lagos as colourful politician and journalist, Mr. Bayo Osiyemi marked his 70th birthday with a public presentation of his book, The Charming Prince in Journalism and Politics. It was also a day that eminent persons elected to testify to the life of the Special Adviser to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Chieftaincy Affairs whose career as a public office holder dates back to the Second Republic when he functioned as the Chief Press Secretary to the highly respected former governor of Lagos State, Alhaji Lateef Jakande. Former Lagos State Deputy Governor Otunba Femi Pedro, Senator Anthony Adefuye, Senator Olabiyi Durojaiye and former Secretary to the Lagos State Government (SSG), Chief Olrunfunmi Bashorun were numbered among the numerous guests who took turns at the occasion to testify to Osiyemi’s life as a consummate professional journalist, a dedicated party man and a workaholic both as a journalist and a politician. Senator Adefuye, who said he had known Osiyemi as far back as the late 1970s, noted that there are three positive attributes of the journalist turned politician, which in certain ways became liabilities for the birthday boy. The first, according to the senator, is Osinyemi’s winsome looks as a young professional, which he said elicited envy from many of the politicians he had to interact with, including himself. He recalled that with Osiyemi’s looks and carriage, there was no how he would enter a gathering without being noticed. His presence, he said, always caused a stir as people would begin to draw their girlfriends closer once they saw him “for fear that they could lose them to Bayo.” The second attribute, he said, was hard work. “If success in life is determined only by hard work, he (Osiyemi) would not be sitting here with us. He should be somewhere in Abuja as one of the people piloting the affairs of the country,” he said. Adefuye recalled that as a journalist, Osiyemi was always looking for stories even at night when his colleagues would have slept. He said Osiyemi replicated that attitude as a politician as he is always working for the success of the party, particularly during the last elections. “If a meeting is scheduled for 1 pm, he would arrive the venue as early as 11 am, preparing the ground for the meeting,” he said. Osiyemi’s third attribute, according to Senator Adefuye, is his penchant for saying the truth, no matter whose ox is gored. He said because the truth is bitter, particularly in our part of the world, “his mouth has robbed him of favours that he would have got from would be benefactors because his detractors have a way of using his words to poison their minds against him.” Happily, he said, the truth always prevails and most of the people who victimised the former Chairman of Mushin Local Government Area for telling the truth often turn round to appreciate him for what he stands for. The Secretary to the State Government (SSG) during the Jakande administration in Lagos State in the Second Republic, Chief Olorunfunmi Bashorun, described Osiyemi as a loyal, committed and excellent Chief Press Secretary to former Governor Jakande. He said: “What many people did not know is that Jakande wrote his speeches, but it was Osiyemi who fleshed it up and it would not be seen by anyone again until Jakande was ready to deliver it.” A retired head teacher, Mrs Ololade Balogun, drew rapturous applause from the gathering after recalling the circumstances in which she began a career in Lagos State Civil Service as a schools certificate holder on account of Osiyemi’s intervention. According to her, she had finished from secondary school and needed a job badly but did not know how to go about it. As fate would have it, she wondered to the Alausa office of Osiyemi on a certain day while the latter functioned as the Chief Press secretary to Jakande. There she met some of Osiyemi’s aides talking about him and how nice a boss he was. “The things they were saying about him encouraged me, so I walked straight to his office, knocked on his door and he asked me to come in. Immediately I went in, I greeted him. He asked what I wanted and I told him I needed a job. “He said who asked you to come and see me and I said no one asked me to; I just decided to come on my own. He asked what qualification I had and I said school cert. “He gave me a note to the Ministry of Agric and that was how I secured employment at the ministry. “Unfortunately, I returned to his office many times to thank him but he would not be available. It was not until he himself came to the ministry one day and saw me. “He did not even recognize me again but I introduced myself and reminded him how I came to his office and how he gave me a note to the ministry. “He said, ‘Yes, yes, yes. But don’t think you would stop your education because you are now working.’ “He was the one that asked me to go and take the forms for Teachers Grade II programme. He was also the one who insisted that I must go for NCE and degree programmes.” Pedro, a former deputy governor of Lagos State, who represented All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu at the occasion, said the large presence of APC chieftains at the occasion was a testimony to how highly Osiyemi is regarded in the party. Otunba Pedro said: “I bring greetings from the National Leader of our party, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who has asked me to represent him at this occasion because he is unavoidably absent.  He said I should tell you that he holds you in very high regards and that he would get in touch with you after this ceremony.” He described Osiyemi as a journalist who uses his wealth of experience to impact on the lives of the people. “He is a statesman per excellence; he is a rare and respectable practitioner of the pen profession. He is very relentless and a loyal public servant. “He has been in and around government, serving his fatherland through great writing, ensuring that the society is better. He started serving at the age of 29, when he was Chief Press Secretary (CPS) in the administration of former Lagos State Governor Lateef Jakande. “He became local government chairman, where his footprints are noted. He equally played his part during the military era by returning to his journalism, to enhance the return to civil rule by ensuring that things were done properly. He is now serving as Special Adviser to Lagos State governor on Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs.” In a congratulatory letter issued by his media office on Tuesday, Asiwaju Tinubu described Osiyemi as a professional journalist, public relations expert of distinction and consummate politician and administrator. The former Lagos State governor said: “I heartily congratulate you on your 70th birthday. Turning 70, the Biblical three scores and 10 years, is a significant milestone for which we must all join you and your family in thanking God for the wonderful gift of life. “At 70, you have done remarkably well for yourself, family and country. You are a professional journalist, public relations expert of distinction and consummate politician and administrator. “Your columns in national newspapers, usually written in your characteristic breezy and lucid style, are a must-read for me and for many others across the country. The patriotism that shines through, the informed and constructive critique of national issues and the suggestions often offered on the way-forward are particularly noteworthy. “You shone brilliantly as Chairman of Mushin Local Government, providing and improving on public infrastructure for the people. “Even now, you are unrelenting as you continue in the service of Lagos in your present position as Special Adviser (SA) to Governor Babajide Sanwo-olu on Chieftaincy Affairs. “As a politician and administrator, you continue to make significant contributions to the development of your Mushin community and of Lagos State. “My prayer is that God grant you more years, robust health and renewed energy and vigour to continue to serve God and humanity to the best of your abilities. Happy 70th birthday, my brother.” Also, Nigerians on Tuesday eulogised Osiyemi as a forthright journalist and dependable public servant. On his part, Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu said: “He uses the talent to nurture the overall development of the country. He has also remained active since he ventured into the path of making Nigeria better. You have continued to make excellent contributions to the politics and development of the country. You have, by extension, made the people of Lagos to feel your impact through informed opinion at different forums. “You have been a consistent member of the progressive family; you have successfully combined journalism and politics together. I celebrate you for living a worthy life which others coming behind you are proud to emulate.” The chairman of the occasion, Senator Olabiyi Durojaiye, said Osiyemi had distinguished himself as a seasoned writer and politician. The book reviewer, Muyiwa Adetiba, said the Charming Prince, an autobiography of Bayo Osiyemi, to mark his 70 years,  no doubt focused on his years of sojourn in life, which according to him, is simple, narrative and captivating.