 TROOPS have mounted a sustained offensive against bandits in the Northwest of the country, just as operatives tackle Boko Haram and other terrorist organisations on the northeastern flank. In the latest operation, personnel of Operation Hadarin Daji or OPHD say they have killed 13 bandits and intercepted a large cache of ammunition and assault weapons across Zamfara, Kebbi and Katsina states. Eleven communities were raided in Zamfara, three each in Kebbi and Katsina, The Nation learnt yesterday. Banditry, kidnapping, and cattle rustling are rife in the Northwest. No fewer than 4,630 rounds of 7.62mm special ammunition were seized in the operations, while eight suspects, including a woman, were arrested, acting information officer of OPHD Captain Abayomi Oni-Orisun said yesterday. Oni-Orisan said that the feat was recorded between the 10th and 20th of this month during an operation as the troops conducted clearance operations, ambushes and fighting patrols in several locations across the the three states. The operation, according to him, also led to the recovery of 7 AK-47 rifles, eight loaded magazines, 22 motorcycles, two dane guns, four GSM phones and 30 jerry cans of Premium Motor Spirit or petrol. The troops also intercepted suspected drug counterfeiters and drug dealers with 350 cartons of fake “PECOL” drugs and a sizeable consignment of suspected Indian hemp in Zurmi and Shinkafi Local Government Areas of Zamfara. The fake “PECOL” drugs, according to the press release, were smuggled from Niger Republic through Jibia, concealed beneath bags of fresh pepper in a J5 Bus with registration number RMY 156 XA Katsina. The troops deployed in Shinkafi Local Government Area of Zamfara  also intercepted a vehicle conveying a suspected drug dealer with a large quantity of  Indian hemp carefully concealed inside a carton. The suspects and exhibits, according to the release, have been handed over to the National Agency for Food and Drugs Administration and Control (NAFDAC) and the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency NDLEA for further prosecution and destruction of the drugs. The Force Commander of OPHD and Acting General Officer Commanding 8 Division, Nigerian Army, Brigadier-General Aminu Bande urged and the general public to support the operation by providing timely and credible information to the troops through dedicated emergency telephone numbers earlier provided to the general public.    