Our Reporter A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Oyo State, Alhaji Adebisi Olopoenia, has said some sycophants, who have formed a cabal around Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde, want him out of the party. He said despite that he owed nobody any explanation or apology if he wished to leave the party, as a founding member of the PDP; sycophants could not move him out of the party. Olopoenia spoke yesterday with reporters in Ibadan on the heels of a rumour that he had perfected plans to leave the PDP. He said: “These sycophants want me out of the party by all means following my advice to the governor on the issue surrounding the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW).” Olopoenia noted that the issue of the NURTW was what bastardised the government of former governor Adebayo Alao Akala when he was in PDP. He said to avoid history repeating itself, he advised Governor Makinde and others on the issue, “but these sycophants, who have formed a cabal around the governor and who have entered into an agreement with a faction of the NURTW, have started waging a war against me.  “When the advice wanted to turn to another thing, I had to back out. Some said I want to be the chairman of the union. This is why I am against the choice of a factional leader to lead the union. Some said I have interest in another factional leader. “But my own interest is the peaceful atmosphere in the state. That was why I cautioned the governor on the issue, but when it wanted to turn to another thing to the extent that my life was in danger, I had to back out.” A few weeks ago, Olopoenia raised the alarm of a threat to his life, alleging that a factional leader of the NURTW in the state was planning to kill him. He said: “Some sycophants who have formed themselves as a cabal around Governor Makinde want me out of the PDP, but million of them cannot move me out of the party. “If I wish to leave the PDP today, I owe nobody any explanation. I am one of the founding members of the party. Those who are spreading the rumour that I want to leave the party are those who are looking for what to eat. They have left the party on several occasions, but find their ways into the government. “Why would I leave the party that I built when Governor Abiola Ajimobi was in power in 2012? He invited me to join his party, I refused. When Governor Akala left the PDP for the Labour Party, despite our closeness, I didn’t follow him. “I started the reformation of the PDP in 2015, bringing back those who have left, working tirelessly to bring the PDP back to power in 2019. Why would I now leave the party when we are in government? “I owe nobody any apology or explanation if I decided to leave, but I am not leaving. The rumour is the handiwork of sycophants who have formed a cabal around the governor. But they cannot destroy our party or the government.”  