 Access Bank Plc has further reinvigorated its multi-billion Naira women-entrepreneur financing scheme with the launch of a new television campaign to create awareness and encourage more participation by Nigeria’s female entrepreneurs. With more than N13.3 billion already provided to women-owned businesses in Africa, Access Bank is through the new campaign putting its weight behind Nigeria’s female entrepreneurs. Access Bank’s “W Initiative”, which has more than 12 million female customers, launched a new TV ad campaign to create awareness on the W power loan -a product specially designed for its women owned businesses. The TV ad campaign encapsulates the vision of the bank to empower women from all walks of life by encouraging them to take advantage of the W power loan to grow and sustain their businesses.  The campaign which has been unveiled on digital platforms and broadcast on TV in a series of high-profile commercials, features two lead characters: Lady W played by renowned singer Aituaje (Waje) Iruobe and Tolu T played by actress and on-air personality, Omotunde (Lolo1) Adebowale. Both ladies seem to be at opposite ends of a string as Waje, the go-getter who jumped at the W power loan, seized the opportunity provided by Access Bank to grow her business quickly but Lolo1 kept procrastinating. Coordinator, W Initiative, Access Bank, Ayona Trimnell pointed out that in a country where almost 50 per cent of entrepreneurs are women, Nigerian women cannot afford to sweep the huge opportunity provided by the campaign under the carpet. According to Trimnell, the TV ad clearly shows Access Bank is putting a stake on the ground as the bank is committed to ensuring that women have access to finance. “We are letting the world know that we are committed to giving women access to finance. A number of financial institutions talk the talk- there are a number of programmes out there but actually providing the funds is challenging and froth with many obstacles. With high interest rates, other barriers to entry, so many women businesses cannot thrive,” Trimnell said. Trimnell said the W Power loan campaign also showcases the many benefits of being a member of the W community including a number of capacity building initiatives and networking opportunities. 