 Governor Dapo Abiodun, has advised residents of Ogun State to remain calm and not resort to self – help in respect of the late Remo Stars Football Club Defender, Kazeem Tiamiyu, and similar cases, pledging to investigate the reported shootings by security agents in Abeokuta and Sagamu areas of the State. He described the killing of the soccer star, Kazeem (aka Kaka) as unfortunate and urged players, management and supporters of Remo Stars Football Club, to remain calm, adding that the killers would be unravelled and brought to justice. While expressing shock at the details of the tragic ordeals, the Governor assured that a proper, transparent and independent investigation would be immediately launched into the two incidents in order to know what transpired with a view to bringing persons responsible to justice. The Governor, who eulogised the late player as a young man with great potentials for the development of the State and the nation in general, strongly stated that his Government would never take with levity, the lives and property of the good people of Ogun State.  He further stated that the first business of Government was security and welfare of the citizens of the State. He added that the case of Kaka would not be an exception. He promised that Kaka’s unfortunate case would not be swept under the carpet. The Governor, however, called on everyone to maintain peace and calm during the investigation and be confident that anyone found culpable would be brought to book according to laid down laws. He sympathised with the two persons hospitalised as a result of the Thursday shooting at Olomoore market Abeokuta by men of anti-cultism team of Ogun State police Command. The Police, he said, confirmed their reported death was a rumour. While expressing disappointment at the handling of the matter, he said the two victims are said to be alive and responding to treatment at the state general hospital Ijaiye Abeokuta where they were rushed to by the security agencies. He assured the people that justice would be sought for the victims in respect of the two incidents and sanctions would also be appropriately met out to those found wanting to serve as a deterrence to trigger-happy security people.