SENATE President  Ahmad Lawan has urged Finland to collaborate with Nigeria in the area of Hi Technology and trade. Lawan spoke on Thursday when the Ambassador of Finland in Nigeria, Dr. Jyrki Pulkkinen, visited his office. “Finland and Nigeria have gone a long way in terms of the diplomatic relationship since about 1963. Since then, Nigeria and Finland have been friends. “There is something that we know about you. And that is to collaborate with the Hi-Tech country that you are. “And Nigeria today is looking for Hi-Tech. In fact, recently the Ministry of Communications was renamed as Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy. That is to emphasise the need for Nigeria to go the Hi-Tech way as well. “We need our friends who are in hi-tech like your country to help us develop to that level that we dream of reaching,” Lawan said. The Senate President told his guest that Nigeria is going through some challenges that so much require the application of technology to overcome. Dr. Pulkkinen, said his mission was to inform the Senate President of the impending visit to Nigeria of a parliamentary committee on Finance from Finland. House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila also on Thursday reiterated the determination of the House of Representatives to partner with stakeholders to reposition the country’s education as one of the best in the world. According to Gbajabiamila, education has always been of top priority to the government, which is desirous of building a solid education foundation for the future. Gbajabiamila spoke while hosting the Finland Ambassador. He noted that the House is taking legislative steps aimed at propelling Nigerian into one of the top educationally advanced countries in the world. Pulkkinen had also informed the Speaker about the visit of Finland’s House Committee on Finance to Nigeria next month on a working visit aimed at exchanging ideas. According to the Ambassador, Finland being globally noted for its strides in education and technology is also reputed for its tax system which has 96 per cent of its citizens paying tax happily. He said the country is looking at having an economic engagement with Nigeria, being the biggest on the African continent. Appreciating Finland’s strides in the tax system, technology and education, Gbajabiamila said: “Finland is known for its education, the secret of how you do it, only you know but we are glad you are willing to share with Nigeria.