Catholic bishops across in the Southwest rose from a conference on Tuesday and endorsed the South Western Nigeria Security Network code-named Amotekun. They said the security outfit recently established by the six governors in the region was commendable and a welcome development. The bishops conference under the catholic bishops of Ibadan province, comprises Ibadan archdiocese, Ilorin, Ondo, Ekiti, Oyo and Osogbo dioceses. Describing the security situation in the country as worsening, the catholic bishops declared that human lives seemed to have lost value with the state of insecurity in Nigeria. In a post conference media chat addressed by the Archbishop of Ibadan diocese , Most Rev. Gabriel Abegunrin , the Bishops vehemently dismissed the claim that Amotekun was targeted herdsmen. The outfit, they insisted, is to take care of people who live in the Southwest including herdsmen, Hausa, Ibo, Yoruba and every other nationality. Also, present at the press briefing are: Archbishop emeritus of Ibadan , Archbishop Alaba Job; Bishop of Ekiti diocese , Most Rev. Felix Ajakaye; Bishop of Oyo diocese, Most Rev. Emmanuel Badejo; Bishop of Osogbo diocese, Bishop John Oyejola; and Bishop of Ilorin, Bishop Paul Olawoore amongst others.
.
“Amotekun is to take care of the people of South West region , we are not saying of Yoruba or Hausa or Fulani . Anybody leaving in the Southwest is covered. I think that is their duty . “They are not excluding anybody at all . Look at the Fulani or Hausa we are talking about , their Sabo communities will be protected . But one think is that if the Fulani people know that they have plans to do havoc in Yoruba land ,they must be ready to face the music . But the Amotekun is not necessarily against the herdsmen at all, ” the bishops maintained. They affirmed claim by the Christian Association of Nigeria ( CAN) that Christians are the most persecuted, citing the killings and burning of church in Minna, the beheading of CAN chairman in Adamawa and other parts of the Northeast. While calling on proactive measures to arrest the ugly situation , the catholic bishops condemned the approach by the federal government , which they said , was far from the expectations of Nigerians.