By Jane Chijioke  The Association of Professional Party Organisers and Event Managers of Nigeria (APPOEMN) has called on the Federal Government to support its bid to sanitise the event industry and uphold professionalism of practitioners. Its President, Gbemisola Ope, who spoke on the sideline of the association’s end of the year party, said the industry is challenged with unprofessional practices as it is viewed as an unregulated sector. She noted that with the government’s intervention through creating policies and law that would backup rules and regulations of APPOEMN, practitioners and prospective ones would abide by standards, thereby offering quality services to consumers. “We need to set standards in the industry. We need to have consequences for actions. So it is not enough for us to say for instance, a photographer is not up to standard or he dupes people. We need the government to back us up in correcting these anomalies. It could be as much as N100, 000 fine or a six months jail term. Also, when carrying out the judicial process, we need the government to support us so that we can have a shorter litigation period where there would not be a court case lingering for one to two years just for N100, 000 or N500, 000 offences,” Ope said.  She noted that getting the government’s attention has been difficult but the association would not relent in its struggle, adding that APPOEMN is hopeful for a better 2020. Also, a patron of the association, Gbemi Sosore, explained that there was need for government to lay down rules and regulation to safeguard the profession. “If rules and regulations are put in place and backed by the government , then people would be safe from fraudsters,”Sosore said. She noted that while the association awaits government’s support, she would continue to do  its best to train and retrain its members, organise seminars among others to upgrade their skills. She said the event management industry is expanding, because Nigerians are merry making citizens.