 THE Lagos State Government on Monday sealed off a razed building at Magodo. General Manager of the State Materials Testing Laboratory (LSMTL) Dr. Tajudeen Afolabi led officials of the agency to seal the building at 70, Bashiru Shittu Street. Afolabi, who assumed office on Monday as LSMTL boss, said the signs on the building warranted the action. According to him, it is dangerous for anyone to stay around the building because it can collapse any moment. He said: “We only came for inspection but what we saw here is serious; more than what we thought. So, we are going to cordon off this place to protect people from coming in. That is going to be done any moment now. “You could see that the house has cracked and part of the house has collapsed. We need to save lives. We are happy that there was no casualty during the fire incident. So, we must ensure there is none after the fire. This is why people must vacate the place for their own safety. The upper part of the building may collapse.” He delivered Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s sympathy message to the owner and tenants. He said that officials of the agency would return to take a sample of the building materials for tests. “Our work is to come here and test the integrity of this building to ascertain if it can still stand the test of time. We cannot say anything now; it is only after the test that we will now make a pronouncement,” he said. A resident, Mrs. Kemisola Adesanya, said the occupants could not salvage any of their belongings. She told the agency’s officials that they were alerted of the inferno by the maids. “The two maids suddenly ran out shouting fire! fire! We all came out, trying to quench it while also calling on the fire service. We did not know that the fire had spread to everywhere. Not quite long, we heard a loud sound; that was the collapsed of the back of the building,” she said. She said nobody knew what caused the fire, “but thank God there was no casualty. “Everyone was preparing to go to the office by that time. Nobody was injured,” she said.   