By Olukorede Yishau  There is another side to House Leader Alhassan Ado Doguwa’s heroic feat of championing Nigeria’s attainment of the status of the world’s third-largest nation. As an individual, he is so rich that his four wives do not have to work and they will still have the best that life has to offer. The fact that this first-class product of Mass Communications from the Bayero University, Kano, has always been in government, either by appointment or election since he finished his national youth service, has seen to it that his bread is always well-buttered. My hope is that he has enough in the vault for his wives to sustain themselves and their kids in case of the unexpected, which we all as mortals have absolutely no control over. We will leave when the time comes whether we like it or not. Rotarian Action Group for Population and Development (RFPD) Chief Executive Officer Professor Robert Zinser put the population explosion debate in proper context when he observed that our population growth is outpacing the economic growth and increasing the poverty risk for many Nigerians. Zinser said: “Although Nigeria has the largest economy in Africa, population growth is outpacing the economic growth and increasing the poverty risk for many Nigerians! More than half of the population already live below the poverty line, while women and children continue to die from preventable causes.” Nigerian Economic Summit Group (NESG) Chief Executive Officer ‘Laoye Jaiyeola shares Zinser’s view that our economy is growing at a slow pace. “The Nigerian economy is still on the path of recovery; however, at a slow momentum and high level of fragility. Real GDP expanded by 2.28 per cent in the third quarter of last year, averaging 2.17 per cent in the first three quarters of the year. “Inflation rate averaged 11.4 per cent but closed the year at 12 per cent following the effects of the land border closure. Exchange rate stability was sustained on the back of continued Central Bank of Nigeria’s interventions, while the foreign exchange reserves depleted significantly due to dwindling inflows from foreign portfolio investors and moderating oil prices. “On the social aspect, the poverty situation worsened as growth remained non-inclusive (over 100 million people live in abject poverty). The weak linkage between economic growth and socio-economic impact persists as poverty becomes endemic,” he said in a study the group just released on the country’s 2020 outlook. The poverty question can be wished away by the fact that Doguwa is rich, but very few women are lucky to have a rich and powerful husband like the House Leader. Many women die at childbirth and for those who do not die, their babies die. Nigeria’s Demographic and Health Survey (NDHS) 2018 says of 100,000 women giving birth, 576 die and of 1,000 children being born, 67 do not survive. When juxtaposed with global average, these Maternal Mortality (MMR) and Infant Mortality Ratios are extremely high. This statistics was obviously at the back of the government policy which sought to increase the Contraceptive Prevalence Rate (CPR) from 15 to 36 per cent this year. The idea was for government to buy contraceptives and provide them to women who need them. So far, the country has managed to increase the CPR to 17 per cent. This is still a long road to the 36 per cent rate set for the year. More and more families are falling into the poverty trap without any chance of escape. The demographic survey urges Nigeria to avert the situation by letting women of reproductive age embrace modern family planning techniques.  It is believed that this will also prevent about one-third of all maternal deaths. Achieving this is, however, a long distant race because as at now, only 7.6 million of our country’s 45 million women of child bearing age use modern family planning method. The National Family Planning Communication Campaign is struggling to generate an additional 7.3 million new users. Socio-cultural, religious and spousal objections are factors working against this dream becoming a reality.  What knowledge can achieve is exemplified by the fact that a RFPD pilot campaign in Kaduna and Kano States led to a 60 per cent reduction in maternal deaths, and 15 per cent reduction in infant deaths in some hospitals. William Ryerson, in a paper entitled ‘Unmet Need – Lack of Access or Lack of Cultural and Informational Support’ said: “Changing this situation takes more than the provision of family planning services; it requires helping people understand the personal benefits in health, wealth, and family harmony of limiting and spacing births. It also involves role modelling family planning use and overcoming the fear that contraceptives are dangerous or that planning one’s family is unacceptable. It requires getting husbands and wives to talk to each other about the use of family planning – a key step in the process to begin using contraceptives.” The population explosion also has severe effects on the environment. It is eating up the forest because the poor rely on firewood to cook. Researchers have found that in many villages the demand for firewood outstrips supply. The risk of deforestation in many parts of the North is said to expand at the rate of 1 kilometre per year. The irreversible damage this has done to the environment cannot be over-emphasised. The side-effects of the population explosion can also be seen in over-exploitation of soils, overgrazing, over cutting of woods, soil erosion and silting. A researcher with the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, Okafor Samuel Okechi, said the country’s temperature mean increase from 1901-2005 was 1.1°C when the global temperature in the same time rose by a mere 0.74°C. The challenges ahead, which the likes of Doguwa are not cognisant of, are supported by the scary growth rate. In 1990, our population was 95 million people. It became 122 million in 2000 and is now 200 million. Our country accounts for 2.35 per cent of the world population. My final take: We must plan our families. Having kids with reckless abandon is not a thing to be proud of. Even when you need to marry four wives to fulfil your religious obligation, each wife can have one kid each or a maximum two. Failure to stop our population from exploding will not be in our interest at all.