 The Federal and Katsina State Governments on Saturday concluded arrangements for the establishment of Garment /Textile factory in Funtua, Katsina State under the Manufactured in Nigeria, for Export, MINE, Policy promoted by the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment The Minister of State, for Industry, Trade and Investment, Hajiya Maryam Yalwaji Katagun, who made the above declaration yesterday at Funtua after a joint site inspection of the land proposed for the establishment of the proposed factory, said the Ministry is bringing industrial revolution to Katsina state by establishing a textile garment industry that will create huge employment opportunities, boost the economy of the state and the country as well as reduction in criminal activities She said the Funtua integrated textile and Garment Park is one of the six priority projects under the Nigeria Industrial Revolution Plan of the Federal Government. She said “For this reason, the state government has made available quite a largest land and we had seen the facilities that are available on the land —power line, rail lines and the network of roads. We have also developed our work plan”, She thanked the state Government for providing about 180 hectares of land for the establishment of the textile/ garment pack and industry in Funtua, who’s flagging off will be conducted soon start. Earlier, the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry, Dr Nasir Sani Gwarzo, said the industrial park when established, would aggregate cotton from over 800,000 farmers from northern Nigeria. He said “The government is therefore desirous of a strong Public private partnership arrangement in order to effectively execute the Funtua project. Our focus is to develop a world class park within a period of 18 to 24 months”. Responding, the State Deputy Governor, Alhaji Mannir Yakubu, said the state government had approved 180hectares of land for the take off of the project, promising to accord the federal government the needed support to execute the project. He thanked the Minister for the visit and the efforts to set up textile Industry in the state, expressing the state government’s support commitment to actualize the vision. Meanwhile the visitation team to Funtua on Saturday was led by the minister of State, flanked by the Katsina State Deputy Governor, Yakubu and the Director General of the Katsina State Investment Promotion Agency, Dr Tukur Jikamshi. They were in Funtua Local Government for inspection of the land for the proposed project.