 New Orleans Pelicans center Jahlil Okafor has opted to play for the Nigeria Basketball team at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, newly appointed D’Tigers coach Mike Brown told ESPN. The 24 year-old qualifies to play for Nigeria through his paternal grandfather who immigrated to the US from Nigeria as a 20-year-old. Okafor was named the MVP of the 2012 FIBA Under-17 World Cup in Lithuania, playing for the gold medal-winning United States team and also won the FIBA World U19 Cup in Czech Republic a year later. The former Duke University star was selected with the third overall pick in the 2015 NBA draft by the Philadelphia 76ers and played a season with Brooklyn Nets before joining his present club in 2018. The 6ft 10in Chicago native has averaged 11.5 points and 5.1 rebounds per game in five seasons in the NBA. Okafor joins fellow NBA players like Minnesota Timberwolves forward Josh Okogie, Miami Heats’ guard Vincent Nnamdi and Chimezie Metu of the San Antonio Spurs in the current D’Tigers rooster and could signal more NBA players of Nigerian descent switching allegiance to Nigeria. Nigeria secured qualification to the Olympics by finishing as the highest-placed African team at the 2019 FIBA World Cup in China.  …Kida fancies Nigeria to impress  at Olympics  As Nigerians countdown to the 2020 Olympics in Tokyo, Japan, President of the Nigeria Basketball Federation, Engr. Musa Kida is optimistic that the senior men and women basketball teams can will medals at the event. Answering questions from journalists recently, the NBBF President said that the Nigerian teams are not going to the Olympics to add to the numbers of participating teams but to shock the world and be amongst the best. With the current synergy and talents in the teams (D’Tigers and D’Tigress), Kida is confident that they can compete with the best around the world and fly Nigeria’s flag high in Tokyo. “D’Tigers and D’Tigress are teams that have the true spirit of Nigerians in them which is the spirit to win and perform optimally. They are going to perform extremely well and may go ahead to shock the world again and this will be an excellent outing”. Being the only team sport to have so far qualified for the Games in Nigeria and the first time both teams will be featuring during the same summer Olympics (also first in Africa), expectations are high for the team to perform. Ranked number one in Africa and 14th in the world, D’Tigress will be making a return to the games after their last outing in 2004 in Athens, Greece while the men ranked first in Africa and 23rd in the world are making return after the Rio 2016 Games. The NBBF president also called on the Ministry of Sports to help the federation prepare well for the Games. “The prospects are brighter with the Technical crew of D’Tigers that we have right now. The players we intend to invite include our players in the domestic league. We are going to have a formidable team and we will shock the world.” The 2020 Summer Games will hold from July 24 to August 9.  