 Kano State Government has reacted to the recent call by the former Governor, Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso for review of the Supreme Court’s verdict on Kano governorship election. The ex-governor, according to government, is ignorant of judicial procedure. R Kwankwaso had last week led the People Democratic Party PDP’s stakeholders in Kano to the party’s secretariat in Abuja where he urged its National Chairman Uche Secondus to call for the review of the Supreme Court rulling in the State. Reacting, the state government, in a statement by the Kano commissioner for information Muhammad Garba, on Sunday, said: “Kwankwaso’s call is a clear testimony of his total obliviousness on the jurisdictional procedures that affirmed Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje as elected Governor” He stated that it was very surprising that Kwankwaso is calling for such review on no grounds considering their glaring defeat and acceptance of the same. He said the Senator, who is quoted to have claimed ‘’voter disenfranchisement and manipulation of judicial processes” in the Kano case, is just being driven by his mawkishness and apparently by the recent development in Imo and Bayelsa states, which scenarios are in no way comparable.  Garba pointed out that while some legal practitioners are looking at technical issues on the two cases, in Kano it is entirely a different game. He said the petitioner (People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Kano failed to neither substantively provide evidence that there was any irregularity in the election held on March 9 nor produce direct evidence to prove to the courts that they were not defeated in the March 23 supplementary election. Said he: ‘’What the Supreme Court ruled was the affirmation of the judgement of the tribunal and Court of Appeal. That is to say the PDP failed woefully to prove their case and that is the substance of the case. Therefore, there is no basis what so ever for review of Kano case.’’ The commissioner stated that this move is a failed agitation and part of a strategy to keep his disillusioned supporters to continue to remain hopeful and to divert the attention of the government which is focused on execution of laudable development programmes particularly now that all litigations are over. He expressed optimism that the judiciary would not allow itself to be pushed to the path of anarchy in a futile attempt to subvert justice. Garba also called on the people of Kano state to shun the frolics of self-centered politicians who are always bent on heating up the polity to their disadvantage.