From Adekunle Jimoh, Ilorin Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq has urged stakeholders in the education sector to join his administration’s crusade against examination malpractices. He said examination malpractice is counterproductive, adding: “It has a way of giving us a bad name in the comity of states.” Recently, the West African Examinations Council (WAEC) imposed a fine on some schools in the state for their alleged involvement in examination malpractices in the 2019 WAEC exams. The governor spoke at Osi in Ekiti Local Government at the golden jubilee of Osi Central Secondary School (OCSS). Represented by Finance Commissioner Florence Oyeyemi, AbdulRazaq said: “Our administration will not condone such behaviour. We recently paid N30.5million to settle the fine imposed by WAEC because of examination malpractices in some of our schools. “We have done this to ensure that the innocent do not suffer for the sins of some other persons. However, we will wield the big stick against anyone caught in such conduct, even as we weigh our responses on the culprits of the 2019 alleged examination malpractices in some of our schools. “Our government will partner stakeholders to tackle developmental challenges confronting our communities. While the government cannot do everything at the same time because of scarce resources, our administration will never be found wanting in appreciating or supporting stakeholders who are doing their best to help the system. “It is against this background that I hail the leadership and members of the old students’ association for their support to the school.” The National President, OCSS Old Students’ Association, Prince Adams Adasofegbe, praised the government for including their alma mater among the 31 public schools undergoing renovation. He said: “The government cannot do everything alone. We want to be a complementary body to the government. I want to thank the government for what it has done to the school. Recently, the school was included among the 31 schools that the state will renovate. The old students’ association and Osi community are very pleased with the government’s action.”  