 The Bayelsa State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has appealed to the people of the state to accept the judgement of the Supreme Court that nullified its victory at the November 16th, 2019 governorship election. Speaking in Yenagoa, the state capital on Thursday, the Chairman of the party, Jothan Amos, said the party and its sacked Governor-elect, Chief David Lyon, appreciated the confidence reposed in them by the people. Amos said despite how painful the judgement was, party members and the people of the state should accept it in good faith, remain calm and maintain the peace. He said: “Let me use this opportunity to extend warm greetings from Chief David Lyon and the headship of the All Progressive Congress (APC). Let me also thank all Bayelsans of the voting age who sacrificed in their numbers to turn out to vote on the 16th November 2019. “We are indeed specially honored and humble to have over three hundred and forty thousand (340,000) votes, that to us demonstrated the change matrix we all yearn and desire. “You may recall that on the 13th of February 2020, the supreme Court disqualified the APC -ticket and ordered for immediate swearing-in of Senator Douye Diri and Senator Lawrence Ewrujakpor as Governor and Deputy Governor respectively. The new news led to pockets of violence across the state which Chief David Lyon had condemned earlier. “The party not satisfied with the decision made an appeal to the same Apex Court for a review. Yesterday 26th February 2020 the Supreme Court expressed its audacity of finality by upholding her earlier judgement. “Therefore, let me thank all party faithful and Bayelsans for their support, prayers, encouragement and sacrifice in the course of the campaigns through to the election and even to this present moment. “Let me also encourage all party faithful and Bayelsans in general to accept the decision of the Supreme Court in good faith and ensue peace and love. “As a party, we must unite to uphold peace to leverage on the love extended to us by Bayelsans as clearly demonstrated on the 16th November, 2020”