Toba Adedeji, Osogbo The Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland, Otunba Gani Adams has admonished the southwest state private security stakeholders to embrace Southwest Security Network, coded ‘Amotekun’ and compliment effort of the successful personnel. Adams speaking to the private security stakeholders which comprise of the Hunters, Oodua People’s Congress, Agbekoya and others at The Grand Place event center in Osogbo, on Friday explained that “the percentage of people that the six-state government want to recruit will be low due to some reasons. His words, “Some state governments will engage five hundred, while some will engage four hundred; putting these numbers together it is just about two thousand personnel that will be recruited in the whole southwest. We need some groups who are private security, oriented group. We should enlighten them to serve as a backup for the Amotekun outfit. “As the generalissimo of the Yoruba race is my duty to put our house in order. We must not leave everything to the government. Some times politics impaired the government to do certain things because of their political background and affiliation. But we that did not belong to any political party we have the responsibility to put our house together and lias with the traditional ruler and government to make sure we play down the issue of security threat in our region. “All these groups, hunger, OPC, agbekoya and others are going to work with the law enforcement agents. We are not encouraging any groups to take laws into their hands. Any criminal that is been apprehended should be handed over to the police or DSS.” He urged them to embrace unity and truthfulness in protecting the people of the southwest. He noted that he has been touring all the southwest states to sensitize the private security groups to secure unity and truthfulness among all of them, which after, he will move to socio-cultural groups then the politicians. He also warned that groups and individuals who don’t want the outfit to be established. “Anyone that says that Amotekun should not flourish will die a mysterious death. Such person shall pay with his life by the help of the gods.” “Security should be everybody’s concern not that some people will be working against it because when criminals want to launch attack they don’t discriminate.” He, however, urged the State House of Assembly in all southwest states to pass the outfit into law so as the operation can start in February or March Aare Ode of Osun State, Asimiyu Abiodun commended Gani Adams for the role of truthfulness he is playing at the security of the southwest.