 Ekiti State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has nominated a former Senate Deputy Chief Whip, Mr. Gbenga Aluko, for the position of the Deputy National Chairman (South). Aluko is being nominated to fill the position vacated by former Ekiti State governor Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo in the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party. The seat became vacant following the nomination, clearance and swearing-in of Adebayo as the Minister of Trade, Industry and Investment last year. The Nation gathered in Ado-Ekiti yesterday that the nomination of Aluko has received the blessing of Governor Kayode Fayemi, national and state lawmakers from the state and the party organs within the state caucus. Aluko, who hails from Ode-Ekiti in Gbonyin Local Government, represented Ekiti South in the Senate between June 1999 and June 2003. He was among the APC aspirants who signified interest in the party’s governorship ticket in the run-up to the 2018 governorship election. A party chieftain, who asked not to be named, confirmed Aluko’s nomination to our reporter. The source said: “It is true that Senator Aluko has been nominated and his name has been forwarded to the APC leadership in the Southwest as the state’s candidate for the vacant position of the Deputy National Chairman (South). “A letter to that effect has been forwarded to the Southwest Zonal Executive led by Pastor Bankole Oluwajana stating the suitability of Aluko for the position. “The letter was signed by the Ekiti APC Chairman, Paul Omotoso and it was dated February 3, 2020. “The state APC chairman wrote the letter forwarding the name of Aluko after consultations with stakeholders of the party.” APC members from Ekiti State on Tuesday stormed the Osun State secretariat of the party in Osogbo to protest an alleged plot to deny Ekiti an opportunity to re-present another candidate to replace Otunba Adebayo. The APC chairmen in the six Southwest states and the zonal executives were holding a meeting on filling the vacant seat at the party secretariat in Osogbo, Osun State when members from Ekiti stormed the place and protested. The Ekiti APC members were believed to have taken the action following an alleged decision to give the slot of the Deputy National Chairman (South) to Oyo State.