Editorial  Large numbers of stranded passengers at various bus stops in such areas as Ikeja, Lawanson, Shitta, Ijesha, Cele Bus Stop, Ojuelegba, Iyana-Dosumu, Mushin and Iyana-Ipaja seeking means of transportation to their various destinations. A not inconsiderable number of others trekking various distances to their desired locations. That was the immediate effect vividly portrayed in both the traditional and social media on the first three days of the commencement on February 1, of the Lagos State government’s ban and/or restriction of commercial motorcycles (okada) and tricycles (KekeMarwa) from plying highways and bridges in 15 local government areas (LGAs) and local council development areas (LCDAs) in the state. The reflexive reaction of some people was that the governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration in Lagos State had insensitively imposed a transportation policy on the state that would cause tremendous hardship for less privileged residents of the state. Nothing could be further from the truth. Indeed, the Lagos State government was not introducing a novel policy. It was only re-commencing the enforcement of the Lagos State Traffic Regulation Law, which had been enacted by the administration of Mr. Babatunde Raji Fashola (SAN), and signed into law by the Lagos State House of Assembly in 2012, but inexplicably not enforced by the government of Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode between 2015 and 2019. Consequently, the reasons for the restriction on the movement of the affected vehicles – gross indiscipline, recklessness and utter disrespect for traffic laws by the riders; unacceptably high rates of accidents, limb deformities and even deaths on the highways due to this lawlessness, as well as the resultant complication of traffic snarls, congestion and loss of productive man hours – had worsened considerably in the state at the inception of the Sanwo-Olu administration. To compound matters, security reports also indicated that many of the ‘okada’ and tricycle riders were implicated in the high crime rate such as stealing, armed robbery, abductions and other acts of violence, especially during peak traffic hours and at night.  The enforcement of the restriction was thus long overdue. We commend the courage of the government as well as the substantial compliance of most of the affected riders. The enforcement agencies have also been effective even though there are reports of arrests of some riders and the seizure of their vehicles in areas not listed in the restriction legislation. This must be checked. We applaud the Sanwo-Olu administration’s initiatives to alleviate the interim pains of distressed commuters. It has rolled out 65 high capacity buses to move an estimated 35,000 Lagosians daily in the areas under the most pressure. An additional 550 medium capacity buses that can convey 30 passengers each are reportedly in the process of being deployed on the affected highways. Action on this should be expedited. Again, on Wednesday, the governor launched the Lagos State Ferry Services Corporation (LAGFERRY) operations mobile app and inaugurated 14 commercial boats with a carrying capacity of 40 to 60 passengers to cover designated water routes in the three senatorial districts to reduce congestion on the roads. Mr. Sanwo-Olu promised that the number of ferries would be increased to 30 by the end of the year. Attention should be paid to efficient safety measures in the gradually growing sphere of water transportation. Expectations are high. The government cannot afford not to deliver. We urge the government to take a census of the displaced riders with a view to finding out those who are able and willing to pursue alternative lines of business and assisting them through its various poverty alleviation schemes. It is important to educate our youth that the dangerous vocation of riding motorcycles and tricycles in busy urban areas is an undignified way to a earn living; it shows scant respect for human life and safety. It is unbefitting of Lagos and the enforcement agencies must sustain their current vigilance and efficiency within the bounds of the law.