If Fela Anikulapo is the father of Afrobeat, then Terry G is the godfather of ‘Free Madness’ that is currently trending in the Nigerian music industry today. He is one those who injected crazy dance, eccentric dress-sense and controversial lyrics into the scene writes OLAITAN GANIU.  From church boy to Akpako Master ABRIEL Oche Amanyi, famously known as Terry G, was born on March 17, 1986, in Benue State, into a Christian home. It would surprise many that the controversial entertainer started off as a gospel singer before rebranded as Terry G, the ‘Akpako Master’. In fact, he learned the basics of music production in a church where his mother served as a chorister. “I came from a very low background but God-fearing,” he said. “I wanted to be exposed despite the fact that my family didn’t give me the opportunity, trust me, I created it. I went out to see what happened out there.” How he got exposed ON how he got inspiration and exposure to secular music, Terry G, who is the first child of his parents’ four children, said his inspiration came from watching MTVbase from a neighbour’s house. He said: “Nobody inspired me, but I was desperate to get exposed to what was happening outside the world. That period between 2007 and 2008, people dey look anybody wey dey wear earring like irresponsible pikin anybody weydey smoke igbo like irresponsible pikin. “The industry is not Gospel, the industry is secular music. Let’s evolve, we’d make so much money, we’d make so much impact.” …And fame comes However, he made fame when Ay.com featured him in a hit single, ‘Pass Me Your Love.’ The song garnered a lot of positive reviews. Also shows started rolling in for the energetic but multitalented act. He further dropped other club bangers, including So High, Run Mad, Testing Microphone, Free Madness, Love Affair, Sexy Lady, Ooga, Ora, Baby Don’t Go and Furret. Then, his logo – ‘Ginger your Swagger’ – was the street anthem. Terry G was always abrasive in his music, with lyrics and sounds that were harder than rock. Speaking on his hugely popular single, ‘Free Madness’, the versatile artiste said he was just testing his sound effect as a studio engineer. “I didn’t plan to release it, but someone leaked it out,” the instrumentalist revealed as he looked angered. “I was setting the studio and testing my effect as an engineer so that when artistes came in, the work would be perfect because I started as a producer and I used to record more than six songs in a day.” His sacrifice Terry G refused to play classic Afrobeat tune. He wanted odd sounds with psychotic lyrics, but yet danceable. He wanted to take the risk and didn’t mind being a scapegoat. “Back then, nobody knew my aim, but I wanted to do something different. We can’t just keep doing the same.” He further pronounced many Nigerians as hypocrites as they have embraced and even encouraged most of the things he was criticised for in the past. “I was just taking a risk. Now, they see people smoking, doing stuff and nobody is talking. I actually prophesized it that, ‘it’s a nonsense that will make sense’. Today my style of music is trending.” Free Madness Vs Marlian Is he truly a precursor to what is happening on the music scene today? A few weeks ago, Terry G’s name popped up on Twitter as fans compared him with Naira Marley. The contest caused uproar between the Marlian faction and ‘Free Madness’ gang on social media. Asked about his take, the singer said he is incomparable, but there will always be a mix-up with any artiste acting crazy.  Speaking about fellowship, Terry G said: “It will not be my opinion because I don’t know how anybody feels. I am just doing my music.” Explaining why he doesn’t get carried away with overhype, he said: ”It is because I usually think as a leader and not a follower. “The day you understand that this music is a game, you will know how to play with everybody. People listen to different musicians. My loyal fans may be another person’s fans.” Should fans be expecting the madness? Recently, Terry G sealed a partnership with Basic Entertainment in Lagos where he commented on his comeback, hinting that he has grown up. “We don’t expect to be stagnant in a position. We always expect promotion. “I know my fans are salivating because I have stopped pushing contents, but it is better to be anticipating than to be disappointed. You know, in life, we grow by age. By God’s grace, I have given birth to children,” he said. He offered that his greatest achievement is his son. “My son is in the United Kingdom. He is seven years old. He is British. Him dey two football academies, Chelsea and Arsenal because I want him to have different skills. I actually wanted to be a football player myself, but I go train for Pepsi Academy. I go there tire dey say make I just dey jog round field for week. Na so I leave there.” Being absent from the music scene, he said, was due to family responsibilities. “I’ve been in London doing responsibilities. I was cooking music,” he said. “In Nigeria, when you say you’re doing music, it means you’re putting contents out. Doing music is not putting songs out. When you get to that fame, the reason why you go down is that you don’t have a lot of contents on the blogs because you’re cooking music again.” Controversy While Terry G’s career achieved huge commercial success, he claims his fame was quite interesting, but he didn’t enjoy it. “When I started the trash that everybody is dancing to today, it was quite difficult for me. I’ve not been endorsed. I’ve not had any share from this game and by God’s grace recently, I’ve been enjoying the future.” His word for artistes seeking international endorsement Terry G advised that Nigerian artistes should not be under pressure to sign for International record labels. “I denied Sony Music,” he yelled. “Burna Boy gan deny am. As long as you’re a celebrity in Nigeria, you’re international.” He, however, lent a voice for upcoming acts. “Before you put your hand on paper, you should be sure,” he said. “You shouldn’t be pressurising because when lights are shining on you, don’t think it will shine forever. Fame and money be like Ogogoro, if you too drink am, you go misbehave. Also, the first money you have in life, you just spend it anyhow. So, my fame was quite interesting that I didn’t enjoy it.