Kano State has gifted Nigeria some of her most colourful and interesting political characters. Aminu Kano was noted for his radical politics and self-effacing lifestyle; Abubakar Rimi for his eloquence and populism. Sabo Bakin Zuwo was also a populist with a comic turn. To that special list we can now add the Majority Leader of the House of Representatives, Alhassan Ado Doguwa. Last Thursday, he returned triumphantly to the House of Representatives having won the rerun election in his Doguwa-Tudun Wada Federal Constituency comfortably. A few days before, just down the corridor in the National Assembly, Senate President Ahmad Lawan, had sparked an urgent national debate by declaring that our security architecture cannot address the insecurity challenges confronting the nation. His remarks came amidst rising tension over high profile executions of hostages by Boko Haram, as well as other mindless killings and kidnappings by faceless bandits across the land. It was against this backdrop that Doguwa made his oratorical outing on the floor of the House. Giddy with excitement, he boasted to wild cheers that he was not called a ‘powerful parliamentarian’ for nothing. He added that his power wasn’t limited to the National Assembly’s precincts. ‘I am also powerful at home,’ he declared. At which point he produced evidence of his might on the home front – four wives who were introduced to the chamber. ‘I deal with four women,’ he announced to great mirth among his colleagues. But there was more. These women had between them already given him 27 children and he was still counting, he said. Actually, Doguwa understated his power. As a representative, indeed Majority Leader, in addition to being powerful at home and House of Representatives, he is also powerful before the larger populace who expect his likes to be an example. Many lawmakers had a good laugh at Doguwa comic moment. But I doubt whether everyone present in that chamber was amused. There are distinguished women achievers who would have taken exception to women being portrayed as just baby machines. I suspect that even men would have been cringing with embarrassment – hoping he would quickly clam up. His outburst gives us a peep into his mind-set and makes you shudder at the quality of legislation which a chamber he leads and influences would produce. No Nigerian law bars him from having 27 or 40 children. Actually, he still has a long way to go in the virility contest to catch up with Mohammed Masaba, the late Muslim cleric from Niger State who reportedly had 89 wives and over 180 children. The legislator would most likely use the allowance of religion to justify his marital and procreation choices. I understand that his faith allows you four wives if you can treat them equally – a virtually impossible task. Doguwa is in good shape because as a federal lawmaker he can comfortably take care of his brood. The same cannot be said of a beggar who hiding under faith follows his example and indulges himself with several wives who end up producing multiple children he can’t cater for. In quick order they are soon deployed into the family business of begging and become a social menace. This same point was made by the Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, in remarks he made at the convocation ceremony of the Federal University, Gusau, sometime in January. He argued that the culture of marrying more than one wife by those who could not properly take care of a single wife and producing many children was the main reason why the northern region would continue to remain backward and in abject poverty. It is interesting that across the Muslim world average family size is nowhere near what our ‘powerful parliamentarian’ is creating. According to UN statistics for 2017, the average household in Saudi Arabia was 5.6 persons, Egypt 4.1, Morocco 4.6 and Indonesia 4.0 to mention a few. The highest numbers were recorded in Oman and Afghanistan with an average of eight persons. Sanusi’s point also has relevance down south as there are many Nigerians who are still breeding without regards to how they would they would cater for the lives they are bringing into the world. Even if they don’t end up with a pan on the streets, they become a burden to their immediate family and acquaintances. Imagine what it would do to a country like ours that already has a population crisis if just 20 million Nigerians decide to copy Doguwa’s example and chuck 27 more persons per family into our midst. You would expect that a senior lawmaker would be concerned that even at today’s numbers we don’t have the resources to provide enough schools, hospitals, roads and other infrastructure for our population. Even if we had all the cash in the world it is virtually impossible to build facilities to match the speed at which humans reproduce. As I wrote in a piece on Nigeria’s population last year, we could well be over 300 million people by 2050. The scary part about these projections is that while we are multiplying, the nation’s landmass remains static at approximately 923,768 square kilometres – or even less if you take out what we lost in the Bakassi Peninsula. A significant chunk of this space is uninhabitable – given climate change and the relentless encroachment of the Sahara Desert. We are already noticing the impact as dislocated people seeking succour down south, compete for land and limited resources with the locals. Many have attributed the spate of kidnapping, armed robbery, insurgency, farmer-herder conflict to the rate of population growth. These are the critical issues which should occupy the National Assembly and not wasting precious time listening to a politician regaling us about his virility or boasting about power for power sake. On reflection, those who had a good laugh would realise that rather than being hilarious, Doguwa’s lap of honour was in reality disastrous.