By Taofik Salako  Capital market stakeholders at the weekend emphasised the underlying value of Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) as viable alternative investment options. Stakeholders spoke at a workshop on “Using Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) as a Proxy for Investing in Nigerian Equities” held by the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) in partnership with Meristem Wealth Management Limited at the NSE in Lagos. Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Mr. Oscar Onyema said NSE has become the second largest ETF market in Africa with a current market capitalisation of N6.9 billion. He noted that from a single ETF tracking the price of Gold in 2011, the market has deepened with 10 ETFs currently offering exposure to equities, fixed income, commodities as well as thematic and smart investment solutions. According to him, the ETFs market segment is radically reshaping the asset-management industry; gradually eclipsing old-fashioned stock pickers given its ability to replicate passive investing styles. “With the market witnessing low yields, we have seen an increasing appetite for equities, and ETFs present investors with an alternative channel to maximize investment and minimize the risk that comes with investing in equities,” Onyema said.  He assured that the NSE is resolute in its goal to collaborate with market stakeholders to not only increase listed ETFs, but also provide the necessary sensitization and capacity building that will boost activity in the market. In his presentation, Head, Asset Management, Meristem Wealth Management, Mr. Taiwo Yusuf, explained that ETFs are inherently designed to give investors access to a wide range of viable assets. He outlined that by investing in ETFs, investors are free from the rigours that come with trading in equities including stock valuation, screening, selection and liquidity risk. “This makes ETFs a more cost-effective investment solution. In addition, ETFs serve as a bespoke product for investors who want to add a tinge of innovation to their investment portfolios,” Yusuf said. At the end of the workshop, three winners emerged in an online quiz to test participants’ knowledge of the ETFs market. The first winner, Sulyman Sulyman won N75,000 worth of investment in ETFs donated by Meristem Nigeria, as announced by Managing Director, Meristem Wealth Management Nigeria, Mr. Sulaimon Adedokun and a goody bag from NSE. The second winner, Harding Udoh received N50,000 worth of investment in ETFs and a goody bag both from NSE; while the third winner, Oludipe Abisoye won N25,000 worth of investment in ETFs courtesy Meristem Nigeria and a goody bag from NSE. 