Lagos State All Progressives Congress (APC)  Chairman Alhaji Tunde Balogun on Thursday urged the 57  council chairmen to complement the efforts of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu at the grassroots. He also charged the local government  party chairmen to welcome defectors to the platform with enthusiasm and integrate them into the local structures of the ruling party. Balogun spoke at the ‘Unification General Assembly’ of the Lagos East Senatorial District held at the Centre for Management Development (CMD) Field, Magodo. The “unity meeting” were chaired by the senatorial leader, Chief Busura Alebiosu, and the Lagos APC Vice Chairman (East), Ashipa Kaoli Olusanya. There was a deep gulf between the two caucuses- Mandate and Justice Forum in the district. Also, there have been leadership squabbles involving Alebiosu, Senator Tony Adefuye and Alhaji Akanni Seriki. Alebiosu, who acknowledged the reality of friction in the district, said the rift was over, stressing that party leaders will henceforth, build on the existing unity and harmony. He said the restoration of unity was underscored by the absence of factional meetings at Agboyi/Ketu, Ikosi/Isheri and Kosofe councils, adding that the crisis in Ikorodu chapter will also be resolved. Party leaders and members, who were in one accord at the meeting, came from 16 local governments constituting the district. Chieftains and party members came from Agboyi/Ketu, Bariga, Epe, Ibeju, Igbogbo Bayeku, Ikorodu Central, North and West, Ikosi Ejinrin, Ikosi Isheri, Imota, Kosofe and Somolu. Balogun, who hailed the reconciliation, described the cessation of hostilities as “a new dawn in East Senatorial District.” He said: “There is no more disunity. In the next general elections, the East Senatorial District should take the lead.” Balogun gave two directives; one to the elected council chairmen, and the other to local government chairmen of the party. He said: “The party chairmen acros the councils should note that a lot of people have joined the APC from other parties after the elections. Don’t make it difficult for them to register. Give them easy access to the party. “The elected council chairmen should complement the efforts of our governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, in their local governments in the areas of roads; fixing of roads and clearing of drainages before the rain comes; health care and primary education.” Olusanya paid tribute to National Party Leader Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, who he described as an exemplary leader, pointing out that, without him, APC would not be where it is today. He also praised Sanwo-Olu and his predecessors, the GAC leaders at the meeting, led by Alebiosu, council and ward leaders and other members for their commitment. He said the meeting was held in fulfilment of the APC constitutional requirement of holding quarterly meetings to assess the party and chart a new way forward. Olusanya, former Agriculture Commissioner, said party unification was a process, adding that leaders and members must continue to brainstorm and share information. He added: “The presence of our leaders show that we are united. We have been winning and we will continue to win. If the senatorial district can deliver two million votes to APC, it is not too much. We are more than Zamfara State.” Alebiosun said the target was achievable, urging members to close ranks. He said: “In politics, we can fight, but not fight to finish. Politicians fight in Europe, America and Canada. We need to always settle our quarrels. “We won by the strength of our unity. We should sustain it. Prince Abiodun Abiodun Ogunleye and Olorunfunmi Basorun are not here. They obtained permission from me that they had other engagements. Ogunleye went to Ibadan. “Since 1956, our votes were usually high in Kosofe. But, it has been going down. We need to work hard.” Adefuye, who spoke on the state of the nation, urged council chairmen to take good care of party members, adding that they should be given priority in terms of employment opportunities. He said: “Consider your party members first in the distribution of dividends of democracy. That will foster harmony. “We have 377 wards. Total votes were over 700,000. It was less than 3,000 per ward. We should do 20,000 per ward. “APC is facing challenges in Zamfara and Bayelsa. The people, not judges, should elect their leaders.” Seriki hailed Sanwo-Olu, saying that the difference is clear. “He is working. He is providing employment. Look at Lawma. “Our council chairmen are working, but, not all of them. During electioneering, they will hear their results. A day of accountability is coming.” Eminent accountant Prince Sosanya hailed the reconciliation in the district, saying that “as from today, there is no fight again”. He said the party should improve on its performance in next elections, adding: “We have three million APC members in Lagos. The total vote at the general elections was 700,000. It was shameful. We should be holding party meetings regularly and discussing.” Sosanya said it is now a taboo for APC elected functionaries to donate motorcycles and tricycles to party members in Lagos. He stressed: “Don’t distribute Okadas, Keke Marwa and empowerment items. If you do that, you are fighting the government. Anybody who does that is not a good party man.” Rasak, Balogun of Epe, praised Tinubu, saying he is a good leader. He also thanked Sanwo-Olu for not letting the party down. He said the governor and his deputy, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, are working and party leaders can beat their chest on account of their performance. Rasak spoke on political labour and reward, stressing: “The more, the merrier. When you call people to labour, there should be refreshment. It should not be “me and me” alone.” Urging party leaders to always embrace love,  he said: “When there is love, there will be peace and development. Let us play politics without bitterness.” Rasak said Lagos has six million voters and APC has three million registered members. Over one million people have also defected to the party. Therefore, he said the chapter should get more votes in the future. Rasak gave the elected local government chairmen a pass mark, saying that they scored above 60 percent in terms of performance. He applauded Olusanya for his display of leadership qualities in the zone. Ogunlewe said: “I am happy to be back. I was against you during the election. But, I am now back. I won my only election in AD. I can see some of the people who worked for my victory here. I am grateful to you for accepting us back.” Senator Osinnowo said: “There is no more disunity and disharmony in Lagos East. There is no state in Nigeria like Lagos. America is the best land. But, they have been changing governments. We have been the ruling party in Lagos for 20 years. “Our party must continue to grow. Our party is big. We have three senators, 22 House of Representatives members, 40 House of Assembly members. We should shun bickering, plots and bitterness.’’ At the meeting were Lagos APC Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC) members Senator Tony Adefuye, Chief Akanni Seriki,  Chief Lanre Rassk, Prince Oluwamuyiwa Onasanya; state party Lanre Ogunyemi, Senator Adeseye Ogunlewe, Senator Bayo Osinnowo, Chief Adeola Oyedele, Commissioner for Women Empowerment Otunba Yetunde Arobieke, Pa Alabi Macfoy, former Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs Commissioner Alhaji Muslim Folami, Yeye Fausat Gbadebo, Segun Olulade, House of Assembly members Tunde Braimoh, Okanlawon Sanni, Sunai Agunbiade, Saka Solaja, Rotimi Olowo and Wale Raji, former Special Adviser Bimpe Akinsola, Yinka Osinubi, Ramata Bankoke, Gbenga Balogun, Youth Leader Tayo Sanyaolu, State Assistant Secretary Femi Saheed, State Publicity Secretary Abiola Salam, Jumoke Animahun, Sunday Adeyemo, Chief Tunde Temionu, Moyosore Ogunlewe, Mojeed Fatai, Alhaja Kafilat Ogbara, Afolabi Sofola, Primate Charles Odugbesi, Abiodun Akhigbe, Adeniyi Saliu, Lanre Odubote, Gbolahan Bagbostowe, K.K. Elesin, Kasim Raimi, Ademola Fatai and Sylvester Ogunkelu.