 What are those things you met on ground and how did you intend to consolidate? What we meant on ground was fantastic; and when this happens, the challenge is on you to surpass what is on ground. I realised we have a beautiful infrastructure in place. Therefore, we hope to improve on existing infrastructure. We will aspire to get all we need from agencies concerned with infrastructural development. The Lagos State government has also been quite generous to the college. We, therefore, vow to be prudent with the available resources so as to ensure government’s presence and contributions are felt. We also intend to improve on our welfare packages and motivate our staff the more towards greater productivity. It is when workers are well taken care of that they can give the institution their best. Before your assumption, there was a crisis under the immediate past administration, and there were rumours that the then Governing Council waded in but almost literally took over the control of the college. Well, I want to disagree with that. The day-to-day running of the college is, by law, entrusted with Provost. If you have heard certain things contrary to this position, it might not be very true. In the Condition of Service, it is expressively stated there. Let me also note here that the Governing Council is saddled with policy issues, and other issues which the Provost might bring to the knowledge of the Council. Issues of unqualified teachers is also a major concern and Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria (TRCN) has been at the vanguard of this battle You are correct. Nonetheless, let me say the teachers we train here are qualified. What happens is that people include cheap labour in order to compromise quality. Here, we train qualified teachers. They are licensed and qualified. Ahead of their graduation, we ensure they are registered with TRCN and their certificates reviewed every year. I must confess to you that this is of serious concern to us because when a teacher underperforms, such person might be asked where he or she graduated from. We want to churn out quality teachers. We know what goes around comes around.  If we don’t train good teachers, it will come back to us. This institution is one of the leading colleges of education nationwide. As the new Provost of the college, how do you intend to consolidate on this standard? Our vision under my watch is that AOCOED will continue to be a leading teacher education institution characterised by a type of education that is all-inclusive. We shall focus on quality and ensure our graduates are those we can boldly say were very well trained. Our mission is to be the frontiers of knowledge among pre-service and in-service teachers. Other objective is to consolidate on our relationship between the college, the regulatory authorities and other stakeholders. As an off-campus institution, what relationship exists between the college and its host communities? We have a very robust relationship with our staff unions and host communities and we intend to build more that. This is to ensure our students live in a more conducive environment.  Our students are spread across Oto and ijanikin communities. We have told the communities to report any erring students to us. They have been cooperative too. How would your administration manage staff crisis? We intend to create a synergy between our staff unions and government by encouraging a dialogue. We shall be proactive. Ultimately, our strategy is that we may not have to go through strike, or carry placards on the streets before our issues are resolved. The unions are meant to be for checks and balances. So when we are not getting it right, they should be able to draw our attention to it. Though sometimes, the union cannot be right all the time, but when we dialogue, issues will be placed on the cards and sorted out. Upon my resumption, we have interacted with our unions and we want to operate an open-door policy so as to carry everybody along.  The phenomenon of academic fraud is something that is witnessed in almost all tertiary institutions nationwide. How will your administration tackle this? We frown at such at both at academic and students level. We will not tolerate thieves in the system. As soon as you are discovered, we shall hand you over to the appropriate authority. And the normal process is to issue you query, ask you to face the panel and the process goes on like that until you are eased out of the system, if found guilty. For years, enrolment in colleges of education has been declining owing to poor morale and remuneration of teachers. This equally gives us concern! But it might interest you that teaching is the only guaranteed job in this present economy. Many who studied one programme or another still come back to education because there are no jobs; that is why you see them taking up Post Graduate Diploma in Education because they know they must be certificated before they can teach. Now, the enrolment is increasing because people especially women, are beginning to appreciate more the role of teaching profession. For instance, as against last year, our enrolment (in AOCOED) has increased. When you visit other developed countries, teachers enjoy better welfare and remunerations; and because we often do not compromise training of teachers here, many that graduate seek greener pastures in more developed climes where they are better paid, especially at the ECCE (Early Childhood Care Education) stage. So how do you, as an educationist, encourage young secondary school leavers who do not want to take up teaching as a profession? I’m sure many of us here didn’t  set out to study education. I personally wanted to study Mass Communication. I was going round universities seeking admission, only for me to find myself in Physical and Health Education. Today, when I sit back and gather my students in a class to teach, I then ask myself ‘I’m I still not communicating?’ So until we educate these children against aspiring for what is beyond their ability, things might not get better. The parents are also guilty for choosing career path for their wards. When you ask them why they are doing so, they will tell you they do not want their children to suffer in future. Ideally, my best advice is to allow these children follow their passion.