Investors must avoid undue concentration of their portfolios and improper allocation of capital between short and long-term assets to reap optimally in the new business year. Speaking on the 2020 global economic outlook at a breakfast meeting organised by the Chartered Institute for Securities and Investment (CISI), Chief Executive Officer, Emerging Africa Group, Mrs Toyin Sanni emphasised the need for efficient asset allocation and selection given the domestic and global economic outlook. She pointed out that economic growth in Sub-Sahara Africa was under pressure and major countries such as Nigeria, South Africa, Kenya and Rwanda should manage their fiscal and monetary policy to stabilize the economy. She said while the push for single digit interest rate may be good for the real sector and capital market, investors must bear in mind that volatility is part of the market. “We should encourage investment in both equities and fixed income securities. We must avert mismatch in our asset allocation.  The outlook for Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPI) in Nigeria is highly stable,” Sanni said. Reviewing the domestic and global economies, she advised that all projections should be reviewed downward as a result of the ongoing Coronavirus which was not initially factored as a risk element but has become a subject of global concern. According to her, countries should adjust their projections in the wake of Coronavirus which was not factored as a risk element initially. For instance, China is a key driver for crude oil for Nigeria. Therefore, if China has challenges in crude oil, it will affect Nigeria. She noted that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)’s policy on Open Market Operations (OMO) has impacted positively on the stock market activities but the sustainability of the policy remains a major concern. She said Nigeria needs to put some structures in place before adopting the West African single currency option. “How committed are the African Countries that have embraced the African Continental Free Trade Area  (AfCFTA) ? The Introduction of Eco as the single currency in West Africa can eliminate some challenges, but it will limit Nigeria’s ability to manage its fiscal and monetary policy effectively at the moment. This is why some of us believe that Nigeria needs to put some structures in place before embracing single currency in the West Africa,” Sanni said. In his remarks, Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Mr Oscar Onyema stated that environment had been identified as one of the five major risk factors to global economic outlook this year. According to him, the counties around the equator would be affected by environment and Nigeria is one of them. Commenting on the environmental hazard, Sanni explained that the introduction of green bond into the Nigerian capital market was one of the proactive measures to address such challenges  as a risk to economic outlook. Meanwhile, the Chartered Institute for Securities and Investment (CISI), United Kingdom has announced its preparedness to upscale the skills and competencies of its members in Nigeria to prepare them for global competitiveness. Addressing participants, Country Representative of CISI, Dr John Osuoha, who coordinated the breakfast meeting explained that there would be series of such forum to equip the members with analytical tools for enhanced professionalism. Osuoha, who expressed optimism at the attendance, urged members to take advantage of numerous certification courses offered by CISI to widen their professional practice. Earlier in his welcome address, the President, CISI’s National Advisory Council in Nigeria, Mr Bola Ajomale explained that the breakfast meeting was part of the means by which CISI enhances professionalism in the investment industry. According to him, CISI’s training programmes are purpose-built to make members relevant to the market. Ajomale advised members to avail themselves of the refresher courses to acquire latest techniques in the global securities market adding that the institute has over 45,000 members globally.