 NEARLY a year since President Muhammadu Buhari signed the National Minimum Wage Bill into law on April 18, 2019, it’s inexcusable that the law is yet to take effect in all the country’s 36 states. According to the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), 16 states have completed negotiations on the adjustments and started paying the minimum wage to workers on Grade Level 1-7. They are Lagos, Borno, Delta, Ebonyi, Edo, Jigawa, Yobe, Katsina, Ondo, Sokoto, Kebbi, Kano, Kaduna, Bayelsa, FCT, Anambra and Akwa – Ibom. NLC President Ayuba Wabba gave an update during a meeting with members of the National Administrative Council (NAC) in Abuja on February 4, saying 17 states were at the negotiation stage.  The delay is condemnable. Much more condemnable is the news that the Taraba State government is acting as if the minimum wage law is inexistent.  Wabba said: “We have been able to make some progress. As I speak to you today from the initial six states that we mentioned in the last press conference, today we have 16 that have signed and commenced (payment). “We have about three that have reached agreement but have not signed. We have about seventeen that negotiation is ongoing. I can say authoritatively that it is only in Taraba that nothing has started. “The committee has not been inaugurated, the process of dialogue has not commenced and therefore, I want to use this medium to call on the Taraba State government to quickly respect the provision of the minimum wage Act.” The buck stops with Governor Darius Ishaku of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He is expected to ensure that the minimum wage law is implemented in Niger State. It’s a measure of the oddity of non-implementation that the state stands alone as a dodger. By dodging, the Ishaku administration hasn’t acted with a sense of propriety. It’s unclear why the Taraba State governor is playing with such a serious issue, which may bring trouble.  The reality is that by law the country has a new national minimum wage of N30, 000. It’s unreasonable to act as though there is no such law in place. It’s scandalous that the Ishaku administration hasn’t even set up a committee to begin negotiations with labour leaders in the state. The government is treating not only the minimum wage law with contempt but also treating the workers with contempt. It deserves to be treated with contempt. 