Osagie Otabor, Bénin  The All Progressives Congress in Edo State has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to call National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, to order for causing violence in the state. It said Oshiomhole was provoking Edo people with his actions of disrespecting state government directives. Spokesman for the Edo APC, Pastor Joseph Osagiede, who stated this at a press briefing in Bénin City said Oshiomhole was responsible for various attacks in the state including the use of explosives. Pastor Osagiede stated that some members of the Edo Peoples Movement like Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu and Frank Airewele had previously accused Oshiomhole of using thugs to attack their residence. Osagie noted that Oshiomhole carried out the attacks to make people believed that he (Oshiomhole) was the person being attacked. He said the sponsored attacks by Oshiomhole was to cause anarchy in the state. According to him, “The way Oshiomhole does things is; to create impression that he was being attacked. He has a ground troop in Edo North to torment people. “It is Oshiomhole behind the attacks in Edo. If the police did not stop him, the people will rise against him. “Edo people will begin to realise that he is deadly. He is provoking Edo people in such a manner that there will be anarchy so that he can perfect what he tried to do with the National Assembly. Recalled he wanted the National Assembly to take over the House of Assembly and when that failed he resorted to violence to create anarchy. “He is seeking violence means to disrupt peace of the state. We are calling on President Buhari to call Oshiomhole to order. Oshiomhole is hell bent on causing anarchy in the state.” Reacting, a former member of the House of Representatives, Hon Samson Osagie, said the state government has continued in error by seeking to put every blame on every other person, other than itself. “The truth of the matter is that I do not know how they decided to put logic on its head. The Governor has threatened time without number on violence over time and the state government is moving around to accuse those who are being attacked for being responsible for the attacks. “Governor Obaseki and the state government at the moment have been so confused and irrational in taking their thoughts and actions to blame Oshiomhole for everything they have caused. Suffice it to say that Oshiomhole or those supporting him in every of their public statements have not issued threats, so the state government and itself are the ones responsible for the attacks and the public is aware of this.”