One of the daughters of President Muhammadu Buhari. Hanan – has denied ever complaining to any security agency that someone took her old SIM card without her consent. Hanan also denied knowledge that a man, Anthony Okolie, was detained by the Department of State Services (DSS) for using her former SIM card. She claimed learning of the incident through the media. The President’s daughter said although she heard that someone was using her name to solicit financial assistance from the public, she never made any formal complaint. Hanan spoke in a counter-affidavit she filed in response to a suit by Okolie in which he is challenging his alleged unlawful detention by the DSS. The President’s daughter is listed as the second defendant in the suit marked: FHC/ASB/CS/3/2020 filed before the Federal High Court, Asaba. The counter-affidavit was deposed to, on her behalf, by Idris Abdullahi from the law firm of M. E. Sheriff and Co. Abdullahi stated that Hanan: “never made any complaint against any Mr. Anthony Okolie to any officer of the State Security Service or any other law enforcement agency. “She was not privileged to even know anybody with the name of Mr. Anthony Okolie and has never reported him or any other person to any law enforcement agency in Nigeria or any country throughout her life. “She has no grievance over re-registering a sim card she used seven years ago to any person in Nigeria. “Though she was not happy with the public complaint that someone has been using her old sim card to solicit for financial assistance, using her name, she never complained to any authority and she was not aware that the person’s name is Mr. Anthony Okolie until when the media published his story. “She was not too bothered about the rumours that someone impersonated her by using the true caller indicating her name to deceive the innocent members of the public. “She does not enjoy any such influence to warrant  her cause anybody arrested and even if she did have such powers, she would have used it positively to the benefit of the less privileged people surrounding her. “She knew about the name of Mr.  Anthony Okolie when the media published that he was attempting to serve her with court process while she was in her school overseas. “Nobody deserved to be punished for buying a sim card initially used by whoever, so long as he did not use the same sim card to defraud unsuspecting members of the public using the name of the former sim card owner. “She knew as a fact that some of her family members complained that someone was using her former SIM card to solicit for financial assistance but she never made any effort to know the Identity at such person not to talk of complaining incidence to the law enforcement agencies. “Her character was moulded to be tolerant and patient in situations like this and that even if she was in the country at that time, she wouldn’t have made a complaint against Mr. Anthony Okolie since he did not collect any money from her personally. “She was embarrassed by the applicant’s suit not knowing anything about him in her lifetime until after getting the process of this honourable court. “The applicant transferred his grievance maliciously against the person of the 2nd respondent who was not even aware he was ever detained by anybody nor did she make any oral or written complaint against the applicant to the 1st respondent or any other law enforcement agency. “The applicant, if truly detained for that long, he has failed to do his homework and his act had caused the public to have a wrong image of the 2nd respondent. “The 2nd respondent (Hanan) was shocked the first time she saw her name over the applicant’s allegation and could not believe the applicant was referring to her. “The applicant was the first to maliciously accuse her publicly for an allegation she knows nothing about. “Several efforts to get any complaint written linking the 2nd respondent to the storyline of the applicant proved abortive.”