Two weeks ago the strain of coronavirus which has killed 1,600 and infected over 67,000 was called ‘2019-nCoV’. Today that virus is re-named ‘COVID19’. Protect yourself. Now, 38 human victims killed in one day, eight humans killed by herdsmen Delta State. About 30 victims early this week outside Maiduguri. When will war be declared by Nigeria? Politics is not a game. It kills and is an extractive criminal industrial enterprise -taking from the people and the treasury. Nigeria suffers horrendously from political criminality – 87% poverty, poor MDG/SDG compliance. Politics has failed us and we demand penalties – long jail time and high fines for political criminality. There are issues arising from the Supreme Court judgement disqualifying the deputy governor-elect for fraud and sacking the ‘innocent’ governor-elect, as collateral damage. Is the governor innocent or a collaborator? First: we have a fraudulent unqualified politician illegally seeking office. Politics has the lowest qualifications but still some politicians must cheat. We need punishing jail time! He is now an alleged criminal, deserving 21 years jail term on each count on conviction, as recommended by his National Assembly (NASS) colleagues for WAEC exam fraud. Second: he should be jailed for attempting to defraud the state by illegitimately accessing a salary, perks and privileges for four years. Third: the party background check system failed or stinks from bullying, bribery, old boy network, zoning et cetera. Fourth: the judiciary is too slow and should have dealt with this matter long ago. In many countries including South Africa, by law the local ‘INEC’ publishes all politicians’ alleged qualifications for public scrutiny. EFCC also failed in screening candidates for governorship office. Fifth: the judiciary must punish criminals, political and otherwise, it detects immediately, including the negligent party unleashing criminals as candidates, by a hefty fine, even a time bound ban, for failing in screening candidates. Six: INEC should sue to recover money covering election costs, financial redress, with fines for deception, intent to defraud and derail the electoral process and electoral mandate. Seven: The Supreme Court and or INEC must take action against the political parties for oversight illegalities. Nigeria reverses the natural order. Sins of the children are visited upon the parent. The deputy incapacitated, has maliciously incapacitated the governor. Why? Why not sack him and ask the governor to appoint a new deputy governor? How did the candidate escape party vetting? To sanitise all political parties, we demand intraparty punishment for incompetence, connivance and corruption. Was it the old boy network, blatant lies, money or was he a rabid politician? What a monumental disservice to properly qualified candidates and the party all now abandoned for the next four years at least. Why is the cheating politician not banned for life from political office? Compute the cost to honest voting party members if not corrupt party members of the entire time, money talk, travel wasted in the election process? But it is monumental political historical landmark. The Supreme Court has dealt a death blow to the ‘Political Forgers Club’ as it has put a powerful weapon of ‘only true certified candidates to step forward’ in the hands of all parties. This strengthens the hand of honest party members, weakens dishonest ones and will stop the plague of corruption and certificate forgery. There is rumour that the replacement also has a case to answer. Why it should take so long for such criminal forgeries to be adjudicated upon is a huge stain on the party and the judiciary and a question only they can answer. Forgery upon forgery- all is forgery!! The lion roared and the deputy ate him.  Now the ‘De-Selected, Dis-Elected or Sacked Governor-Elect’. A lion devoured by the cub: A pointer to the legal dangers of imposing party people without thorough screening. Too often unqualified former thugs seize office directly themselves with brute force and even murder of opponents and blood-thirsty rituals. The Supreme Court judgement is that a person has committed a criminal office with intent to illegally insinuate himself into a political position to defraud the government of the income of that position. By implication, the over 300,000 voters were criminally misled into mis-voting and have been defrauded of their political choice for four years. INEC has been deceived to register this person and the judgement has nullified the election and cost INEC its reputation. INEC must sue for malicious intent, false pretences, deception and charge costs. All these must have a real cost and the criminal responsible has been found guilty by the Supreme Court. His property must be impounded by the Supreme Court to help pay the billions lost. The Supreme Court must complete the cycle!  Politicians can only be stopped by ‘crime, dismissal and punishment’. The Supreme Court must announce the introduction of the principle of ‘Payment for a Debt of Deception’ or ‘Cost of Criminality’ based on the ‘Depth of Deception’. The first crime is ‘Criminal Deceit in Wasting the Time of The Supreme Court’. The Supreme Court must impose commensurate fines in cases that come before it on the losing party if the loser has committed a criminal act or lied or misled the legal process to get to the Supreme Court. The deceivers must no longer walk free but owe and must pay a ‘Debt of Deception’ in cash, kind, property seizures, jail and denial of political participation. After all they seek to profit from poisoning and polluting politics.