Bayelsa Governor, Douye Diri, has called on the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, All Progressives Congress (APC) Governorship candidate in the last election, Chief David Lyon and other opposition parties to support his administration. Speaking during a thanksgiving service on Sunday, Diri promised to run an all-inclusive government. He insisted that he needed the cooperation and support of all leaders of the state, including former President, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan to succeed. While thanking God for giving him the mandate, the governor urged all his supporters to be magnanimous in victory. He said: “I will be Governor of all, be it PDP ,APC and others. We must remain united and ensure peace in our land. “That is the only time we can be talking of development. Let us work together.” The governor said his priority was to bring development to every part of Bayelsa, adding that he was willing to consider even members of the opposition parties  for appointments. He, however, warned against crimes saying his administration would go tough on criminals. “Our administration will not condone crimes and criminalities. No development can take place in the atmosphere devoid of peace,” he said. In his sermon, the guest preacher, Apostle Zilly Aggrey of Royal House of Grace International, said no man should take the glory for the declaration of Governor Diri by the Supreme court. Aggrey, warned against frivolities in governance and warned the governor against bootlickers, sychophants and praise singers who would run down other people for personal gains. He noted that Bayelsa was too rich in resources to be poor and urged the overnor to initiate projects that would have direct bearings on the people. He said: “Every community in Bayelsa should have good water to drink. You should work with the Koreans, Chinese, Germans and other good nations to bring development. Our youths need jobs”. Aggrey called on the people of Bayelsa to continue to pray for the governor and the deputy governor, to provide them effective leadership.