Zamfara State Government has plans to build 247 modern primary health centres, Governor Bello Matawalle has said. The governor stated this when five councillors of Gusau Local Government Area, who defected from the All Progressives Congress (APC) to PDP Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) visited his residence in Gusau. Governor Matawalle said all arrangements have been put in place for construction to start. He explained that the health centres will admit and treat patients with minor illnesses to reduce the hardships encountered by rural dwellers in covering long distances in search of medical attention. The governor, who reiterated that his administration is determined to improve the people’s standard of living, assured the councillors that their constituents will benefit from his administration’s development strides. He also assured them of his resolve to take meaningful development to the 147 wards in the state, even as he called on the councillors to assist his government with useful advises on how to better the state. Matawalle was happy that the councillors joined the PDP, and assured them of equal treatment and opportunity. The governor has donated N10 million and a car each of the four leaders of physically-challenged persons in the state. He also promised to sponsor 100 of their children into quality schools, including studies abroad. Matawalle equally ordered for the renovation and upgrading of their associations’ secretariat in Gusau. The governor made the donations when four associations of the physically-challenged at the Government House. He urged them to continue being God-fearing and support the government, especially with prayers. Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Ibrahim Mallaha thanked the visitors for their support to the administration of Bello Mohammed. Former Deputy Governor Ibrahim Wakkala praised Governor Matawalle for his concern to the disabled. He added that their prayers are acceptable to God. Leaders of the disabled – Shehu Fada (lepers); Usman Kurma (deaf); Abdulkadir Na Kaka (blind) and Ibrahim Sani (cripples) – thanked Governor Matawalle for his concern and care to the physically-challenged. 