THE Federal Government is finalising arrangements to raise about N25 billion through its third green bond issuance. Minister of Environment, Dr. Mohammad Abubakar said this yesterday during a courtesy visit to the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) in Lagos. Nigeria had issued its maiden green bond of N10.69 billion in 2017 and followed this with second issuance of N15 billion in 2019. Abubakar said the government was planning a bigger issuance under the third series to accommodate more projects as it continues to seek ways of improving sustainable growth. “We want to embark on more projects that are climate sensitive that will help in eliminating climate problems,” Abubakar said. He outlined that the net proceeds of the green bond will be used to finance power, aforestation, deforestation, water, energy and agriculture among other projects. He explained that government was moving towards smart agricultural production to produce more foods with minimal impact on the environment. According to him, the third green bond will further demonstrate government’s commitment to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 20 per cent unconditional and 45 per cent conditional by 2030, as outlined under the Paris Agreement signed on September 21, 2016. He pointed out that green bond and climate change are the defining issues of today and the future. “Green project are what we need today because of the climate issue we as a country is facing, we need to change our environment through solid waste management, turning waste to wealth, wasting to resources, these are all the things we need green bond to finance,” Abubakar said. Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Mr. Oscar Onyema reiterated the commitment of the Exchange to the development of the green bond market and in partnering with the government for sustainable growth and development. The Federal Government had in December 2017 launched Nigeria’s maiden sovereign green bond as part of efforts to diversify government revenue and deepen the domestic capital market. Nigeria’s first sovereign green bond was oversubscribed by about N100 million as investors staked N10.791 billion on the N10.69 billion maiden bond. The DMO in July 2018, listed the maiden N10.69 billion green bond on the stock market. The five-year bond carries a coupon rate of 13.48 per cent. The Debt Management Office (DMO), which oversees government’s debt issuances, listed the series 11 green bond, a N15 billion, seven-year green bond issued at a coupon rate of 14.50 per cent on June 13, 2019 on the NSE. The issuance of the green bond and listing were sequel to Nigeria’s endorsement of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change on September 21, 2016. The Paris Agreement aims to strengthen the global response to the threat of climate change. The NSE and Luxembourg Stock Exchange (LuxSE ) had in 2019 signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) that would see the two exchanges cooperating in promoting cross listing and trading of green bonds in Nigeria and Luxembourg. The MoU also established an agreement for the two exchanges to collaborate with a view to sharing best practices and organising joint initiatives in their respective market 