Adeola Ogunlade  The Founder Inspired Christian School, Mrs. Christy Ibeabuchi has called on parents and other stakeholders to be deliberate in their effort toward raising godly children needed for Nigeria’s moral rectitude and development. Ibeabuchi spoke at the Train a Child conference and book launch by Zainab Obi organised by Home Educators Academy and Network held recently at Right Way House, Ikeja, Lagos. The event tagged; Raising a Creative Child had parents, counselors, teachers, teens teacher, school owners, among others. It was all about how to find and support your children’s interest, how to boost your child’s creativity, understandings, strong willed child, how to build your child’s confidence, and how to become a more intentional parent, exhibition. She said that the world will not change or find peace without a new form of training that is deliberate, intentional and results oriented. She said that we as parents were trained consciously and unconsciously, we also need to train our children that way, noting that it is hard for a child that is train to deviate from the way he or she is trained. The discipline that works is training, she added. She said:  “Today, many are hopeless, others are careless, leaders are heartless, parents are shameless, children are manner-less, youth are restless, relationship are meaningless, education is valueless, churches are Christ less, Christians are wordless and everything less because of unprepared adults at various organisatons. There is a root cause to every child behavour. To discipline a child, you must know the root cause of his behavour and also know how to deal with it. So, we don’t end up destroying their future.”  She noted that parents and teachers must be all intentional in parental upbringing; listen to them not judgmentally but to understand their point of need rather than seeking them to understand us. In her words, the author of the book, train up a child, Zainab Obi said this conference is geared towards creating a consciousness in parents that they are primary educators to their children and that they have a huge mandate to maximise their potentials and how to raise a creative child within the environment. She said that the book is a fall-out of many parent’s desire to raise disciplined children, adding that the prevailing society understanding of discipline and parenting have been such that present discipline as punishment. She pointed out that the results in many cases have been the children become mere complies to rules, waiting to become rebels as they grow older. She said “the book is about the discipline. that rock: which is achieve by training, relationship  and building a family system that produces influence. The book teaches that disciplined children are produced by training, retaining and reinforcing training, not by punishment” “Training is a step by step guide to achieving this type of discipline. The book is for anyone who wants to embrace a godly intentional approach to discipline in parenting. Brace up for a mindset shift as you read the best book that promises to transform your family to a happier family that produces self-disciplined, emotionally stable children,” she said.