 THE Iyaloja General of Ojodu Local Council Development Area (LCDA), Mrs. Folashade Salako, on Tuesday appealed to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and House of Assembly Speaker Mudasiru Obasa to save the Abibat Mogaji Sunday Market, Ogba from being handed over to a developer. She alleged that the LCDA Chairman, Mr. Olumuyiwa Oloro, plans to hand over the market to a developer, who will convert  the facility to a car park for a market developed recently. Salako spoke when she led traders from the market on a peaceful protest to the House of Assembly in Alausa, Lagos. The woman, who is also the Iyaloja of Abibat Mogaji Sunday Market, Ogba said the market, which had been in existence for more than 35 years, had been patronised by the rich and the poor who came from  locations including Lagos Mainland, Ibeju Lekki, Agege, Epe, Ikorodu, Ifo and Abeokuta in Ogun State, as well as Igbo-ora in Oyo State. She alleged that the traders were caught unawares when Mr. Oloro came to the market last week to present an offer to them that they wanted to give the market to a developer, but the traders must be ready to mortgage for 30 years. Salako called on the government to save the traders “because we have no means of survival. This is the only place through which we feed our families.” A copy of their petition presented to the House of Assembly read: “The Abibatu Mogaji Sunday Market should not be allowed to be taken over by Hon. Oloro to turn it into a car park, as this will be tantamount to eroding the efforts of the late Alhaja Abibatu Mogaji.” Salako said as a peace loving people and prominent members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, they have opted to come peacefully to the House to express their dissatisfaction. Receiving the protest letter from the traders, Mr. Tunde Buraimoh, who spoke on behalf of Speaker Obasa, said people have a right to engage in legitimate trading in Lagos State and their right must not be trampled upon. He said: “The traders were part of those who enthroned this democracy and this government belongs to them.” Buraimoh praised them for holding a peaceful protest without taking the law into their hands. He assured the traders that the letter would be delivered to the Speaker, who was out on an official engagement and urged them to be peaceful and patient in handling the affairs of the market. The lawmaker representing Ikeja Constituency II, Mr. Richard Kasumu, prayed for the traders that their rights would not be taken from them and pledged to support them and sort out the issue peacefully.   