The Ekiti State Government has intervened in the lingering crisis between the people of Iye-Ekiti and their counterparts from Ikun-Ekiti in Ilejemeje and Moba Local Government Area of Ekiti State respectively arising from land ownership. The Deputy Governor, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi, urged the two communities give peace a breathing space, stressing development thrive in environment devoid of violence and upheaval. Egbeyemi, said clashes and killings over land could discourage investment and scuttle the Governor’s efforts towards boosting economic profile of the state. Egbeyemi who spoke while hosting traditional rulers and community leaders from Iye Ekiti and Ikun Ekiti to a peace meeting over land dispute between the two towns, warned against fanning embers of discord that could lead to bloodbath over land and boundaries. He called on them to cooperate with the state government to attract investment that will boost economic activities and create more jobs. According to a statement by the Special Assistant (Media) to the Deputy Governor, Odunayo Ogunmola, the Oniye of Iye Ekiti, Oba Jonathan Adeleye-Oni led the delegation from his town while the Onikun, Oba Olusola Olatunde led the delegation from from his community. Egbeyemi stressed that the Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, was passionate about attracting investment to the state and would not want communities to be involved in violent clashes, anarchy and bloodbath over land. He described the two neighbouring communities as brothers urged them to continue living together peacefully as the process to resolve the boundary issue continues. He subsequently directed the officials of the state Boundary Commission and Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development to visit the disputed areas to identify the said pillars that show demarcation or other means of identifying the boundaries. The team is expected to carry out a physical inspection of the disputed boundaries on 3rd March and report back to the government for further action. In a bid to settle the matter, the Deputy Governor said that the representatives of the two communities should come to terms and settle their differences or risk forfeiting the disputed land to the state government. Egbeyemi advice the Obas, Chiefs and Elders of the communities to call their subjects into order adding that the state government will not tolerate any form of unrest in the state. The Onikun, Oba Olatunde said the crisis was between two families between the two communities, while the Oniye sought for harmonious relationship between the people. The Oniye, Oba Adeleye-Oni appreciated the Deputy Governor for the fatherly role played in settling the crisis between their communities.