 The 25-year-old singer sent his prayers to the country following the outbreak of the virus, which has infected almost 60,000 people in China alone and caused more than 1,300 deaths. Buy tickets below. He took to Instagram on Thursday (13.02.20) to share a video, in which he said: “What’s going on, China. It’s Justin Bieber here. I just wanted to say I know it’s a very scary time for your country right now, but my prayers and support go out to you. You guys are amazing.” The ‘Yummy’ hitmaker confirmed his donation – which is for an unspecified amount – in the caption of the post, which read: “Watching the news I couldn’t imagine how scary it would be if a new disease was effecting my wife and my family and friends. China we stand with you as a collective humanity and have made a donation to support. Whether it be this or the fires of Australia we all need to be there for eachother. Shout out to my friend @kriswu for the conversation. (sic)” The news of Justin’s charitable deed comes after other stars sent their messages of support to China. Last week, Katy Perry offered her love and support to those who have been affected by the virus, which broke out in Wuhan in December. Katy’s message was shared on Twitter by Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, director-general of the World Health Organisation, as he wrote: “This is a great message of solidarity from @katyperry to the people of #China. I couldn’t agree more – we’re in this together and we can only stop it together! Thank you for lending your voice to such an important cause. #2019nCoV (sic)” In the ‘Con Calma’ hitmaker’s video, she urged people to “keep fighting” against the virus, and said she is “sending [her] prayers” to everyone involved. She said: “Hi everyone in China, it’s Katy Perry. I just wanted to send a message to you, to let you know that we are all with you during this time. Keep fighting, and stay healthy and positive as best as you can. We are thinking of you. We are sending our prayers, and we’re going to get through this.”