In line with the federal government’s initiative of attaining self-reliance in food production, and job creation Tancem Nigeria has announced that it has committed over N7 billion into the construction of the first indigenous tractor assembling plant in Delta State with 20,000 tractors per year capacity. The tractor assembling plant was initiated to help facilitate and enhance the needed transformation of the agricultural sector into the modern commercialised and mechanised system as it is obtained in the western world. Speaking to The Nation, the chairman of the company, Dr Ubiwe Kabetu Eriye, noted that true development and industrialisation of a community or region can only occur by the active leading roles of individuals and entities from such community or region. According to him, the project will provide over 4,000 jobs, as 1,000 persons would be directly employed while over 3,000 indirect employments would be created. Eriye said, “After consultation and discussion with our foreign technical partners, we resolved to build a 20,000 per year farm tractors and agricultural equipment assembly plant with the ultimate goal of converting plant to a full tractor and agricultural equipment manufacturing facility. “An initial tractor production capacity of 10,000 units per year of 75-80 horse power,4 x 4 all-wheel drive tractors is envisaged in the first year of plant’s production life with retained capacity to increase tractor production based on increased demands for products. Our nation currently faces chronic farm tractors shortage and depends on unstable and non-feasible importation of generic tractors to cultivate its vast land. “By way of illustration, Poland with population of 38 million people has 1.5 million active farm tractors while Nigeria with 200 million people has less than 60,000 active farm tractors, according to statistics from the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Importation of generic farm tractors without viable after sales service centres within reasonable spread around the country have resulted over time to scarcity of tractors for the Nigerian farmer due to chronic non repair or rehabilitation of these generic tractors. “By generic I refer to importation of tractors manufactured abroad for exports to different countries of the world, say Mexico, Mongolia, South Africa, Nigeria etc without configuring tractor’s performance features to accommodate the peculiar climate and terrain peculiarities of the recipient country like Nigeria for instance, despite production conformity with international standards.” He noted that experts in the tractor industry recognise the unsuitability of most of these generic tractors as a core factor in the incessant breakdown of farm tractors without timely repairs in the country, explaining that Delta State for instance has over 75% of her tractors in state of disrepair, making accessibility of tractors by farmers near impossible. The industrialist regretted that this adverse situation negates genuine efforts by government towards agricultural revolution is replicated across regions of the country. He pointed out that Tancem, through her tractor plant building effort, seeks to introduce a truly superior farm tractor that accommodates the peculiar Nigerian terrain and climatic conditions, from the swampy, tree stubs impediments in southern Nigeria to the very hot and dusty wind corrosion of tractor engines in the north. “In essence, Tancem Tractors here or abroad would be responsive in product configuration to those peculiar conditions of region or country where our product goes to. In this regard, Tancem and her foreign technical partners, engineers held multiple discussions and presentations on the unique features of Tancem tractors to suit the environmental and farming peculiarities in Nigeria, While remaining accessible and very affordable. “Couple of meetings and presentation, inclusive of interface with engineers from the Federal Ministry of Agriculture & Rural Development (FMARD) and Director General and senior officials of National Automotive Design and Development Council (NADDC) was held within the last two years, the last of meetings and presentation at FMARD and NADDC occurring in June 2019.“ Eriye stated. Similar meeting was held with officials of Delta State government led by the then commissioner of Agriculture in Asaba in 2018,” Eriye stated.