Elo Edremoda, Warri  The All Progressives Congress (APC), Delta state chapter, has begun a forensic audit of its accounts in order to determine the accountability of the embattled party chairman, Prophet Jones Erue. The party disclosed this in a statement Friday, which unveiled the five-man ad hoc disciplinary committee that will look into the alleged “gross misconduct” of the chairman. In the statement which was signed by the state secretary, Comr. Chidi Okonji, the State Executive Council (SEC), stressed that the five-man team had two weeks to carryout necessary investigations. Members of the committee are Pastor Godwin Akpovie as chairman, Hon. Leo Ebinim, secretary, Prof. Festus Arunaye, Hon. David Yinka Atie and Hon. Lawrence Akpeti. The State Working Committee had on Wednesday resolved that he (Erue) ‘step aside’, following his alleged refusal to provide information on the use of party funds over time. The SWC had accused him of reckless running of the party, pitching leaders against each other, among others. Meanwhile the terms of reference for the probe, as drafted by the SEC include, “the legality of the currently annulled constitution of vacant senatorial positions in APC Delta State by the state chairman, suspension of the Delta state deputy chairman, Engr. Elvis Ayomanor, woman leader, Dr. (Mrs.) Janet Oyubu, Delta South Senatorial chairman, Mr. Tosan Awani and five others for alleged misconduct. “To carry out a forensic audit on all Delta State APC Party’s account to determine probity and accountability in its management by the State Chairman, Prophet Jones Ode Erue; to investigate the reason for the State Secretariat being under lock and key with administrative staff and security men being owed 16 months of salary and wages. “To investigate the reason behind the none holding of State Executive Committee(SEC) and State Working Committee (SWC) meetings since March 2019; to carry out an investigation into the disappearance of buses donated by presidential aspirants and other party leaders to the party; “To investigate any possible collusion with other party officials in the running of the party account; to determine the culpability of Prophet Jones Ode Erue and any other party official involved in any or all of the terms of reference above and to recommend appropriate sanctions if found wanting.”