 African walnuts are seasonal fruits with enormous nutrition and health benefits. These nutritional contents in walnuts provide immense benefits to the human body in several ways. African walnuts help to prevent some mineral and vitamin deficiencies. Eating this fruit helps to protect you from certain chronic diseases and supply other range of benefits which are detailed below. There are certain neuroprotective compounds present in walnut fruits that contribute to normal brain functions such are omega-3 fatty acid, antioxidants, folates, and vitamin E which improve brain health in adults and in growing ones. A dietary fatty acid called alpha-linolenic acid found in African walnuts makes it great in preventing memory loss or decline associated with thinking, especially Alzheimer‘s disease. These fruits are good for pregnant women because they are rich in polyunsaturated fatty acids and other nutrients that prevent unborn babies from developing food allergies. An omega-3 fatty acid is an important fatty acid contained in African walnuts helps to improve baby’s cognitive development and vision, and also lower some allergy risks.  African walnuts contain melatonin in the nuts which make them better for consumption mainly before going to bed in other to aid better sleep and tackle some sleep disorders which are likely to occur at night. People who find it difficult to sleep well at night or during the day should eat a reasonable amount of African walnuts before going to bed so as to help to suppress sleep disorder and its related causes. Contain effective antioxidants such as tannin, tellimagrandin, flavonol morin, quinine juglone and polyphenols that help to prevent the liver from damage against food chemicals and terminate free radicals from the body system. And some other antioxidants that act as anti-aging properties like ellagic acid, melatonin, and others. Walnuts are good for weight loss and management when added to the daily diet. It has been proven that an ounce of walnut contains quality fiber, protein, and fat that helps make the stomach to feel full. The presence of vitamin B-7 works in hand with fiber to improve the metabolism process of the body and appropriate checking of body weight. Regular consumption of walnut fruits like two or more times a week can prevent cancers of different types such as breast cancers and pancreatic cancer. These fruits are regarded as fertility boosters and it has been seen as well from medical research that men who eat African walnuts on a daily basis are prone to have increased sperm quality. The presence of healthy fatty acids in these nuts such as omega-3 fatty acids among others plays a great role in sperm development and fertility boosting in women as well as men. Walnuts contain L-arginine which are amino acids needed for the biosynthesis of protein and promotion of a healthy heart. Arginine is a natural dietary supplement that changes into nitric oxide (NO) in the body. Nitric oxide has a specific attention to the heart. It helps to combat heart diseases that lead to hypertension, coronary artery problems, and nitric oxide imbalance. Omega-3 fatty acids, phytosterols and other natural antioxidants that have a positive link to the heart are also present in these nuts. Regular consumption of these nuts contributes to the reduction of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) that is bad cholesterol in the body. African walnuts are edible single-seeded stone drupe fruits known for their white-cream seed enclosed by a black thick wall. Manganese is a trace mineral in the body that occurs naturally in African walnuts alongside zinc, copper, and iron that are effective on immune development and functions. African walnut is completely healthy for men and women. When I say African walnuts, I mean the nuts and all the derivatives. Walnut leaf extract is another natural antioxidant that plays a good role in regulating menstrual flow. Eating African walnuts on a daily basis helps to reduce the risk of hyperglycemia, high blood sugar which is the major cause of type-1 and type-2 diabetes mellitus. Experiments have shown that African walnut is one of the best fruit for people that want to maintain a healthy blood sugar level and prevent the risk of obesity. African walnut contains anti-inflammatory properties that help to prevent bone inflammatory diseases. Other nutrients such as calcium and potassium are important bone-density minerals that help to improve bone strength and limit the risks of bone diseases such as osteoporosis. Walnuts are rich in vitamins, minerals, antioxidants and phytonutrients needed for the health improvement such nutrients include thiamine, vitamin C, folates, riboflavin, cyanocobalamin, niacin, vitamin E and B vitamins such as B-1, B-2, B-3, B-5, B-6, B-9, and B-12. Source: finelib.com  