A faction of the Edo State All Progressives Congress(APC) loyal to National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole,has dared Governor Godwin Obaseki by holding a rally in Edo Central senatorial district. The organisers however dribbled security agents by earlier announcing Irrua as the venue of the rally only to direct members to Opoji in Esan West where it held. Security agents had sealed off the Irrua venue apparently in line with Governor Obaseki directives banning political rallies in the state but the rally held in another venue. Governor Obaseki had last week threatened to deal with Oshiomhole and any other persons who continued to defy his ban on political rallies. At the rally at Opoji, some former PDP members led by Prince Tony Omoaghe and former Speaker Bright Omokhodion joined the Oshiomhole’s APC faction. Speaking at the rally, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu said: “They told us in Benin that this rally will not hold, they said many things will happen but as we were coming, the road was good. “But you know these people are cowards, early this morning at about 3 am, they went to Chief Inegbeneki and threw hand bombs. The first one did not detonate, the second one detonated. “If somebody had died, I don’t know what they would have said. “We have been keeping quiet not because we are afraid, but because‎ we own the house. “Obaseki said he would destroy the Edo APC, but we would not allow him”, Ize-Iyamu said. However, Chief Inegbeneki said his residence was attacked with explosives that destroyed a vehicle and part of the building. According to him: “I got that information with rude shock. “Frankly, I am short of words, it must have been politically motivated. After this successful political rally, I am going to Benin to assess the damage. He warned: “For those drumming music of war they should be prepared to dance to the music”. Inegbeneki called on President Muhammadu Buhari to rescue the people from the hands of Obaseki and his deputy, adding “Edo is under siege”.