How was Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo chosen as the running mate of David Lyon of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the Bayelsa State governorship election of November 2019? Those who chose him must now be wondering why they did. The Supreme Court decision on February 13, which voided Lyon’s election just before his inauguration, exposed the flawed process that produced his running mate. The governor-elect was punished for the sin of the deputy governor-elect. According to the Supreme Court, Degi-Eremienyo was unqualified and shouldn’t have been chosen as Lyon’s running mate in the first place.  A report said: “Justice Ejembi Ekwo, who read the lead judgment, held that the deputy governor-elect presented forged certificates to secure clearance for APC deputy governorship ticket. “Ekwo added that in view of the discrepancies in the names on the certificates submitted by Degi-Eremienyo to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), he was not qualified for the election. “The judge noted that it was established from the documents submitted   that the deputy governor-elect forged the certificates and fraudulently used different names when it suited him. “He held that the primary school certificate obtained in 1976, GCE obtained in 1984, first degree obtained in 1990 and others were a product of forgery and that Degi-Eremienyo violated Section 182 of the   Constitution.” Indeed, it’s strange that Degi-Eremienyo had presented a 1976 First School Leaving Certificate with the name Degi Biobaragha; 1984 West African Examinations Council General Certificate of Education (GCE) with the name Adegi Biobakumo; and first degree from the Rivers State University of Science and Technology with the name Degi Biobarakuma. Significantly, none of these certificates had the name with which Degi-Eremienyo had contested the governorship election as Lyon’s running mate. It is unclear whether the names on the certificates he had presented referred to him.  Considering the ambiguity, it is unsurprising that the Supreme Court judgement highlighted the lack of clarity. The judge said: “It is nothing new to say that affidavit of change, correction and confirmation of name has to be by Deed Poll and not mere deposition. “It must be stated that such correction or change will necessarily affect National Record and Archives of the country. “Therefore, the deponent, after executing a Deed Poll, has to approach the Nigeria Civil Registry to have the change published in a gazette. None of these was done in this case.” If, indeed, the certificates were Degi-Eremienyo’s, why did he fail to do what should have been done to clarify that they were his? If they weren’t his, how did he get them?  This is a case where a name really mattered. The winners who became losers because of a name must now live with their loss.    