Dr Joel Akande  One of the most frequently asked questions that we encounter in our practice is women and men asking us how to boost their fertility potentials. I will now use this opportunity to settle this question so that readers can be informed on the subject.  For Women (1) Avoid all infections in your reproductive pathway. Urgently treat all existing infections in your reproductive tract. Infections of the female reproductive tract may lead to pelvic inflammatory disease or PID. PID may cause upward migration of the infection to affect the tubes, the ovaries and the rest of the reproductive system. So, live a life that is completely devoid of infections. Tubal blockage is a major cause of infertility in women; (2) Keep your BMI (body-mass-index) within range 18-25. Obesity diminishes fertility. Therefore, reduce your weight. A figure 8 shape improves fertility; (3) Exercise 150mins per week (aerobics, anaerobics, stretching). One of the key ways to boost fertility is by regular, planned exercises. Apart from helping to reduce weight and burn body fats, exercise boosts reproductive hormones and reduces stress. Note should be taken that the exercises need to be structured and planned in addition to being regular; (4) Eat simple and balanced natural diets plus good water.  Your diets should consist of: protein and complex vitamins (found in non-red meat, chicken, turkey, fish, beans), vitamins (apple, pawpaw, orange, grapes, green leaves), carbohydrates (yam, gari, cocoyam, plantain etc), fat (plant oil in form of palm oil or vegetable oil) and clean water. They should be consumed in reasonable measures daily. Avoid processed foods as much as possible. If you have to, eat processed food that is fortified with vitamins; (5) Avoid toxins: alcohol, nicotine/cigarettes, and plastics, other pollutants/toxins in air, food, water, cosmetics and pharmaceuticals. Go natural. Pollutants disrupt reproductive hormones.  In addition, alcohol reduces human reproductive potentials. Cigarette stiffen the oxygen required by the reproductive systems. Therefore, endeavour to avoid these substances.  (6). Treat all existing illnesses or aberrations like infections, blocked tubes, fibroid, endometriosis, diabetes, thyroid disorders and other hormones imbalances. Illnesses reduce human reproductive capabilities. Each and every illnesses should be brought to the attention of doctors for treatment. In that way, your fertility potential can be improved. Diabetes may make conception difficult. Thyroid disorders may disrupt menstrual cycles as are other hormone imbalances; (7) Treat mental health disorders and avoid stress. Whatever it takes, have good sleep. Sleep apart from being a crucial index of general health, is important for fertility. A restful mind will give a peaceful reproductive system. Conception may be difficult in an environment of worry and anxiety; (8) Monitor your ovulation and have sex at ovulation window. To get pregnant, women have just one chance per menstrual monthly cycle. You should determine perhaps with help your doctor, your ovulation window. Pregnancy occurs around this period. Therefore, sexual intercourse should happen 2 days before and 2 days after the ovulation so that potential parents will give themselves maximum chance of getting pregnant. (9) Routinely take folic acid much ahead before and during pregnancy. Folic acid prevents neural tube defects in babies. Except as otherwise may be advised by doctors, it’s safe to take folic acid prior to getting pregnant. However, a good natural and balanced nutrition will supply enough folic acid that a person requires; (10) Act to have children within natural time range. Nothing lasts forever. Make hay while the sun shines. Time is everything. If not possible, seek medical help early. Don’t delay. There is a time allocated for our human activities. Getting older above age of 35 before starting a family has a lot of drawbacks. The eggs get older and weak just as the body of the individual is also getting older. The peak fertility period of a woman is between ages 22-32 or under 35years.  For Men (11) It is safe to say that all that I have written above applies to the men, though men do seem to have a longer reproductive capability than women. From age of 65, however, there is deterioration in the sperm quality of men. Overall, there is no magic booster to boost fertility. If there is a damage of the reproductive tract, no amount boosting can make any change without first repairing the damage. 