About 70 percent of the Nigerians is yet to be captured in the e-commerce space. This is despite the technological revolution in the country. Poor customer experience in the online market space, skepticism on the genuineness and reliability of online merchants, among other factors, are responsible for this, JANE CHIJIOKE writes.   Her crave for gowns, especially those well-made, is insatiable. Therefore, it was not surprising when while perusing an online store, she stumbled on an advert displaying gowns of various styles and immediately placed orders for two. But Ogechi Oha, a student of a tertiary institution in the Southwest, will not forget her experience  in a hurry. After contacting the online store, Oha was superised when she was told that what she saw online were mere samples that could be made for prospective customers once they pay. Determined to have the gowns, she decided to patronise the online designer. Oha paid N30,000 and was to complete the balance on delivery, which included the materials, workmanship and delivery cost. But her expectations were to later pale into frustrations, crystalising into a mirage. For two weeks after the agreed date of delivery, the ‘designer’ gowns were not in sight, making her to request for a refund. Eventually, when the gowns were delivered to her, it was different from her order. “What I eventually got was a complete contrast of what I saw online.  The colour was off from what I requested, the quality of the material was poor, the sewing pattern and designs were poorly made. I rejected the clothes and requested for a refund of N30, 000 deposit. ‘’Of course they declined to pay me the money back. Since then I resolved not to patronise online goods  as most of the items online are photo shopped to lure customers. Again, trust and customer service is not guaranteed,” she added. Oha’s case represents some of the challenges been faced by consumers who engage in online shopping. They are faced with factors, which include lack of trust to deliver value, time wastage, high cost, fraud, low quality of goods and services, and delivery cost. With much emphasis on online visibility for business growth, marketing experts say, the internet has continued to be flooded with various businesses of which some are fraudulently inclined, adding that its unregulated space have made most consumers victims of  unfair online commercial activities. Expectedly, consumers’ perception of trust of online merchants has remained low, making them unwilling to make purchases online. According to a marketing expert, Ben Adegoke, this remains the reason informal trade would continue to hold sway in the country. “The online shopping space is awash with fraudulent activities. Even the well-known online retail giants are not excluded.  When an order is made online, there is always a possibility that what was ordered is different from what will be delivered. So, this has reduced the trust consumers have in shopping on such platforms,” he said. Adegoke explained that consumers have become more demanding to get value for their money, a reason most shoppers still prefer a face-to-face shopping. He reckons that such untrustworthy attitude could also account for some of the reasons notable retail players in the online space have folded up. “The trust issue consumers have in digital markets is mostly the challenge facing the growth of the e-commerce sector” he said.  Consumers speak A self employed man, Timothy Ogah, narrated his experience. He purchased a laptop at N120, 000 from an online site. He had waited for one week before his good was delivered.  He thought he had bought a quality good until a week later when the laptop developed some faults. Efforts made to return the laptop proved abortive. He got tired of waiting and accepted that he was defrauded. A housewife, Mrs Busayo  Adeleke, who shared same sentiment was disappointed after discovering she had paid for a substandard Italian bag she ordered from a seller online. “I tried making complaints but to no avail.   I paid N30,000 for it.  I called the number on the site but was not reachable.  Luckily, I was able to trace her on her instagram page, there I realised that I was not only her victim.  In as much as technology has made things easier, there is need for regulation of the online market space with strict penalty enforced to protect the consumers. For Juliet Chinagorom, a student, online shopping remains a route not to be taken. She had not for once engaged in any buying on such platforms because she can’t risk losing her money to substandard goods. Also, complaints that she gets from friends about poor service and products delivered to them are discouraging.  Aside that, she explained that she prefers the sightseeing, which enables her to compare products before making a choice. Also, the innovative models incorporated by malls to provide a good shopping experience make shopping adventurous to her. Chioma Enem, another student, said she had fallen victim to online market fraudsters several times, making her to become averse to dealing with online merchants. “Since then, I find it difficult to patronise online shops. Also, since I could visit a shop and get whatever I wanted that same day, I think waiting for three to seven days or even more to get product delivered is   time consuming. However, online shopping would only remain a last resort for me,” she said. A marketing consultant, Femi Ogunlade, said though the online shopping  has attained some level of growth, the e-commerce platform is yet to unleash its potential on the country’s economy given the population and its continuous increase. For him, it would take longer years for the e-commerce to attain reasonable growth. Generally, stakeholders agreed that a stiffer regulation should be directed to addressing trust deficiency, an enabling environment, high cost of products, and regulation of the online market space, among others. If all these are not put in place, online shopping, they maintained, would remain elusive to many shoppers.