From Rasaq Ibrahim, Ado-Ekiti  The Ekiti State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and former governor Ayodele Fayose have pointed accusing fingers at one another over the poor condition of Akure-Ado-Ekiti Road. Fayose had last Wednesday lamented the poor state of the road, saying the interstate road linking Ondo State capital, Akure and its Ekiti State counterpart, Ado-Ekiti, has turned to a death trap. He said that the road was too important to the economy of Ondo and Ekiti states as well as the well-being of the people of the two states to be neglected completely by the Federal Government. The former governor added that the road had become a source of severe hardship for Nigerians, especially the people of Ekiti State, who are the major users of the road. He called on the Federal Government to fix the road, as motorists now avoid it. However, in its official reaction to Fayose’s statement, the ruling APC expressed surprise that he could be describing the road as being deplorable, alleging that the ex-governor during his first term diverted the N400 million earmarked for the road project to his personal use. Countering the allegations, the ex-governor described it as mischievous, spurious and a mere conjectural statement that lacked content of validity. APC Publicity Secretary Ade Ajayi said the criticism was a “display of viciousness and ignorance,” adding that the ex-governor should bury his head in shame and apologise for siphoning tax payers’ money.  Ajayi alleged that Fayose deliberately chased away the contractors handling the project from site, asking him to give explanation on how the fund meant for the road project was spent. He added Fayose left virtually all the state roads in a deplorable condition, which Governor Kayode Fayemi was busy fixing to ease the severe hardship of the people. The ex-governor, through his media aide, Lere Olayinka, said the APC-led government should dissipate its energy on how to deliver dividends of democracy to the citizenry instead of spreading campaign of calumny against him. Fayose, who challenged the ruling party to petition the Economic and Finance Crimes Commission (EFCC) to investigate the alleged financial infraction, claimed that his administration constructed roads across the 16 local governments, “which the people are currently enjoying.” “As per the allegation that somebody mismanaged funds, if they have any evidence that Fayose committed any financial infraction as governor, they should inform the EFCC.” 