Dr Joel Akande  In the last few weeks, the world has witnessed and is yet to come to terms with a newly discovered devastating virus that, as at the time of writing this article, has killed 1000 persons worldwide and several thousands are affected. Still billions of people the world over are held in fear of a pestilence that the world is unprepared for. Just as we have witnessed, the current epidemic is just one of many that we have come to confront from human interphase. In reality, nothing is new. What is new is the human modernity; the interaction of human beings with animals and mistreatment of human environment or his/her habitat that ultimately transmit these germs to human beings. The lifestyle that human beings have chosen to pursue, the pushing of frontiers hitherto unknown along with different experimentations that seem to alter the ecosystem are somewhat responsible for the new epidemics that we now experience. All of these will bring new and perhaps devastating consequences. Let me mention some of the fatal diseases that are emerging and let me remind the readers that human beings are poorly prepared for these diseases. Examples of these illnesses are human immunodeficiency virus, SARS, Middle East Respiratory Syndrome, Lassa fever, Ebola, and now as we have seen coronavirus that started in China a few weeks ago. For our purpose, we will be discussing, in the next few and following weeks, these fatal illnesses that, if care is not taken, may reach pandemic proportions. In this week, we shall take a look at Coronavirus. I must sound the note of caution that, in our modern human life, no one is immune from a disease that 100 years may have been confined to its area or region of origin. Human migration, intermarriages, world trade, shipping, flights and of course the internet have made close interaction of human beings and hence spread of diseases possible. A disease that occurs in North Pole may spread to the South Pole in a matter of days if not hours.  Coronavirus: Let me quote the World Health Organisation (WHO). “Coronaviruses (CoV) are a large family of viruses that cause illness ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS-CoV) and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS-CoV). A novel coronavirus (nCoV) is a new strain that has not been previously identified in humans.  Coronaviruses are zoonotic, meaning they are transmitted between animals and people.  Detailed investigations found that SARS-CoV was transmitted from civet cats to humans and MERS-CoV from dromedary camels to humans. Several known coronaviruses are circulating in animals that have not yet infected humans. “The current outbreak of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) was first reported from Wuhan, China, on 31 December 2019” and has spread across the world with over 40,000 now reportedly affected and over 1000 deaths. As at the time of writing, no reported case in Nigeria and indeed Nigerian government has set aside substantial amount of money to fight the disease.”  Signs of Coronavirus infection: “Common signs of infection (novel coronavirus) include respiratory symptoms, fever, cough, shortness of breath and breathing difficulties. In more severe cases, infection can cause pneumonia, severe acute respiratory syndrome, kidney failure and even death.”  Prevention: “Standard recommendations to prevent infection spread include regular hand washing, covering mouth and nose when coughing and sneezing, thoroughly cooking meat and eggs. Avoid close contact with anyone showing symptoms of respiratory illness such as coughing and sneezing.”  Unique Circumstances: It has now been reported that, novel coronavirus can be transmitted via stool or feaces. Considering that typhoid is very common in our environment and giving that typhoid is transmitted through faeces and water onto our body, it follows that we are at a particular risk of spreading coronavirus should it be reported in Nigeria.  Self-Protection: Wash your hands frequently with soap and water or use an alcohol-based hand rub if your hands are not visibly dirty. When coughing and sneezing, cover mouth and nose with flexed elbow or tissue – discard tissue immediately into a closed bin and clean your hands with alcohol-based hand rub or soap and water. Handle raw meat, milk or animal organs with care, to avoid cross-contamination with uncooked foods, as per good food safety practices. Maintain at least 1 metre (3 feet) distance between yourself and other people, particularly those who are coughing, sneezing and have a fever. Travel advice and more information are available in the WHO offices or their websites, respective state and federal ministries of health. 