From Oseheye Okwuofu, Ibadan  A Principal Partner of Afe Babalola & Co, and a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Mr Adebayo Adenipekun, has said that constitutional amendments alone cannot solve Nigeria’s problems. Adenipekun, while addressing reporters in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, insisted that Nigerians should erase it from their minds that the call for constitutional amendments is the solution to the security and other problems confronting the country. He spoke on the sidelines of the official presentation of a book entitled: Wole Soyinka: Quest for Renewal, written by Professor Mary T. David, an Indian national. Adenipekun maintained that the problem of Nigeria is not the constitution, but the implementers of the law in the country. He added that the implementers of the constitution — legislature, executive and judiciary — are the ones guilty for failing to implement what is in the constitution? While speaking further, Adenipekun maintained that the Nigerian government should find ways of addressing socio-economic problems such as thuggery, hooliganism, kidnapping, banditry, poverty, unemployment among others, which he described as the main source of the problems. Adenipekun said: “The problem is not with the constitution, the problem is with those who are executing; executive, legislature and the judiciary. We have a very good constitution. The legal frameworks to address the issue of security challenges are always there; don’t forget that we have so many agencies that deal with security challenges. “All I can say is that the foundation of our problem is about the economic problem. If we solve the economic problem, some of these issues will be away. A hungry man is an angry man. We have restless youths who are jobless and when you are idle, they said that the devil finds a job for idle hand.  “So I don’t think that a constitutional amendment can solve our problem. I don’t think it will change anything. We should find a solution to our economic problem.” Adenipekun who called for attitudinal change towards reading decried the quest for quick money among the youths. His words: “The reason for that is because of the orientation that you don’t need to work before you make money. “In those days when we were young, we look up to doctors, lawyers and professionals, we promised ourselves that we want to be like them, but suddenly people just make money without working. Some become millionaire, billionaire, so with time, the culture started changing; that you don’t need to read before you make money. “We must change our orientation. If you go out of the country, if you are in a train station for instance, you will see a white man he will be reading a book, but a black man will not do anything. “So we need to change our orientation, let us practice that culture that hard work pays. If we go back to that system that hard work pays, people will sit down and read. Because knowledge is power, knowledge is wealth.” At the presentation was former Director of Banking Services, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr Titus Oladioupo Fatokun, Professor Jide Ajidahun of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko, Chief Bolaji Ayorinde (SAN), Mr Frank Erinle, Prince Adedeji Atayero, Mr Kehinde Ogunwumiju (SAN), Mrs Esther Adenipekun, the Chairman, Spectrum Books Limited, Dayo Ogunniyi, management staff of Lead City University, Vale College, and other schools in Ibadan, amongst others. 