 In the last two weeks, we have been dealing with pestilences and their effects on human population. During the said periods, we have seen how coronavirus and Lassa fever could be so devastating to human beings. One thing that is undeniable is the fact that human beings co-exist or should co-exist with animals. Encroaching on animal ecosystem could bring adversity on human beings as we have seen with some most dangerous diseases that human beings have ever seen. In today’s discussion, we will focus on one of the most feared ravaging diseases of all times; so much so that even the famed Hollywood has made movies about it. Merely hearing of the name creates panic and considerable anxieties in the mind of the people. Of all the modern day virulent diseases that could afflict the mass of people, Ebola stands out tall and blazingly unique. This is so for several reasons: the fatality is very high, surpassing 50 per cent. Until in the last few months, no known treatment was available and no vaccinations until lately. Also, the spread could be lightning fast and as deadly, much unlike HIV. More worryingly, the physicians and nurses that could be standing as a bulwark against the illness are equally vulnerable to it. What is more, Ebola virus can linger in the body system, damage the brain and also be transmissible via sexual intercourse; in the same way that human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) could.  What is Ebola virus? Ebola virus is a deadly virus that causes many frightful symptoms, the most prominent being high fever and massive internal bleeding. Ebola virus kills as many as 90 per cent of the people it infects. Ebola virus lives in animal hosts, and humans can contract the viruses from infected animals. Major route of its spread is by butchering infected fruits, bats, monkeys and other bush animals. It can be gotten through ritual funeral practices for victim. After the initial transmission, the viruses can spread from person to person through contact with body fluids or contaminated needles, contact with the blood, body fluids, organs and tissues of infected animals as well as direct contact with blood, organ or body. Also, it can be transmitted through secretions of an infected person with body fluids of infected individuals or through sexual intercourse. The possibility of contracting Ebola virus is high in those who had direct contact with the body fluids of an infected person or animal.  Risk factors and symptoms Those at risk during an outbreak include health workers, family members or others in close contact with infected people, mourners with direct contact with the bodies of deceased victims, hunters in contact with dead animals. This list also includes those who recently travelled to endemic countries especially, places of recent outbreaks, and those who hunt or eat bush meats recently as well as those who are employed in a laboratory that uses monkeys and other bush meats from Africa in research.  The incubation period – The period between contact with the virus and the appearance of symptoms – ranges from 2 to 21 days. Signs and symptoms begin from the third day of infection with Ebola virus. Early signs and symptoms include fever, severe headache, joint and muscle pain, chills, and weakness. Late signs and symptoms include nausea and vomiting, diarrhoea (may be bloody), red eyes, raised rash, chest pain and cough, stomach pain, severe weight loss, bleeding, usually from the eyes, and bruising, Also, bloody nose (epistaxis), spitting up blood from the lungs (hemoptysis) and vomiting it up from the stomach (hematemesis), and bloody eyes (conjunctival hemorrhages), and internal bleeding may set in.  End stage: It can cause multiple organ failure, severe bleeding, Jaundice, delirium, seizures, coma, shock and death. People may also experience hair loss, sensory changes, liver inflammation (hepatitis), weakness, fatigue, headaches, eye inflammation, and testicular inflammation. Ebola virus is difficult to diagnose because early signs and symptoms resemble those of other diseases, such as typhoid and malaria. Blood tests to quickly identify the virus, including enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (PCR). These are done in specialised and designated laboratories.  Treatment and prevention No drug has been approved to treat Ebola virus. People diagnosed with Ebola virus receive supportive care and treatment for complications. Supportive hospital care includes providing fluids (drips, ORS), maintaining blood pressure, providing oxygen as needed, replacing lost blood, treating other infections that develop. Of late, some vaccines have proven to work against Ebola. These vaccines are not yet available universally and are still undergoing testing to ensure they are safe for human use. In the meantime, in the event of suspected Ebola, it is advisable for everybody to maintain high standard of personal and environmental hygiene at all times; avoiding close contact with people who are sick; isolate the patient; use safe burial practices; ensuring that objects used by the sick are decontaminated and properly disposed; wear personal protective equipment, and observe universal basic precautions when attending to sick patients; dispose of waste safely; dispose of needles safely; wash your hands with soap and water; ensuring that all cases of fever go to the hospitals to ensure they are not hemorrhagic fevers; avoiding direct contact with body secretions of sick people such as vomit; avoiding direct contact with uncooked bush meat; and people who live around hunters that handle fresh bush meats or their hunters need to be very careful.  What you can do If you think that you or a colleague, a friend or a family member may have been exposed to a person with Ebola virus or the virus itself. Call your doctor or go to the nearest emergency room immediately. Travel advice and more information are available in World Health Organisation offices or their websites, respective state and federal ministries of health.