 In our highly-competitive society, the likes of Ms. Obiageri Mazi, the primary school teacher who came into limelight because the Borno State Governor, Prof. Babagana Zulum found her in school by 6.30a.m, are rare. Learning about her story – how she spent 31 years teaching in the same school and did not go beyond college education (National Certificate on Education- NCE) to earn a degree – she could come across as unambitious. I dare say few teachers, especially in southern Nigeria, would remain in such situation that long without seeking to upgrade qualification, change posting and fight tooth and nail for promotion. Doing any of these is actually not bad.  However, there is so much to learn from Ms. Mazi’s patience, consistency, dedication and commitment which show that there are so many routes to success; that one can achieve success the slow and steady way. The 54-year old taught in the same school for 31 years earning N35,000 only before Governor Zulum promoted her, yet she remained committed.  Not only did she do her work as expected, but she went beyond the call of duty to get to work when some would still be on their beds. She could have chosen to be bitter – one of her former pupils was an assistant teacher in the same school while she was still a teacher – but she did not. She could have done her work without much energy; but she was passionate about teaching.  For her, it was a calling, a promise to God. It was while in that lowly position where she had been faithful for years that reward, fame and even money found her. Beyond the promotion and cash gift she got from the Governor, Ms. Mazi was sought out and rewarded by complete strangers who had not met her but were inspired by her story. From north, south, east and west, people gave to her.  I do not know how much it was in total that she got, but I know it was more than three years of her salary. What does this teach us? What should this teach any teacher or head of school in charge of moulding chldren’s lives out there? It teaches that sometimes we may not be able to control our circumstances, our place in life, but we can control how we behave in whatever situation we find ourselves. Ms. Mazi controlled what she could – her behaviour, her dedication to duty, her love for the children, punctuality, professionalism and today, miles away from her home state, Abia, she found honour.  Well done Ms. Mazi.  Thanks for inspiring us. 