 HOW has it been since you returned to the music scene? My return to the music scene has been amazing. Obviously, if you take a short break and you come back, somebody is going to take your place, but I think they made an exception in my case. Since I came back after I got signed on Oojee Records, I have been doing better than I did before I left and I will say that I have amazing fans. Also God has been faithful. It is rare to be off the scene and come back and still be relevant. I just give it all to God and the fans for my kind of music. I think it is also because my music is unique. I never sounded like anyone when I was here and when I came back. My fans accepted me for my uniqueness. You did a song with veteran actor Harry B; tell us about it. I would say the music business is all about strategy. It is all about concept. And working with Harry B has really given a different perspective to my music and to the fan base I’ve acquired over the years because obviously I did something nobody in the world has done before. Getting someone at the age of 60 that never had a song before or ever rapped to get signed to a record label, people were asking like: What will this old man sing? Why are you signing an old man instead of a guy. It is a strategy and it worked well for me. My fan base expanded and I got more reviews. I will just say the music industry is all about your ideas and your strategy, and I think the angle of having Harry B on a song to rap is quite laudable and it sold out. How would you describe your relationship with Harry B? My relationship with Harry B started in 2018 when I was about to make the video of my song titled ‘Aku’ and I needed a Nollywood figure that was going to play the role of a chief and an Igwe. I reached out to him. He was so excited he said he had been a fan of mine ever since he came back from the States. We did some videos and I discovered that he is a vibrant man. He had this hip hop thing in him. He loves to freestyle and all that so I just fell for him. I just felt that I could do something out of this and I took him to the studio and he did a cover to my song, ‘Zamo’. I did a competition for my song, ‘Zamo’, and Harry B  entered for the competition he won eventually because his cover went viral. I got him signed on Oojee Records and that’s how it all started. You also recently released an Extended Play (EP) with Harry B… The new EP is titled ‘Father and Son’ and it is a collaborative EP with Harry B. I put that EP out actually to promote and at least get enough materials for Harry B because after the song, ‘Zamo’, came out, people wanted to hear more songs from Harry B. The idea is to bridge the generational gap. It is an awesome body of work available in all stores. You seem to have a bigger fanbase in South East; why? My music actually started from the South being an Igbo boy. My muisc was influenced by the likes of Puff Daddy when I started, but at some point, I decided to start doing something that sounded original. So I started infusing Igbo to my songs. Basically, I will say it’s because of where I started and how much influnece I’ve had on the South Easterners and how much of the fan base I have gathered over the years. So it seems like my music is dominating more in the South East, but I would actually tell you  now that I get a lot of love in Lagos than I used to even in the South East. But I still give it up to the South East. How would you describe your type of music? My music is a feel good music. I’m inspired to make people happy because we come from a country where the youths are not really excited about what they see. The economy is not favouring the youth and a lot of reasons for people to get depressed. You have not really been linked with any woman; are you that secretive? Earlier this year, a picture of myself and actress Rachel Okonkwo hit the internet and people started saying we got married secretly, but in about a week, the video came out and the air was cleared. I like women, but I like to keep my relationship private. Are you married? I am single but as much as I could keep a bare relationship out of social media, I don’t think I will be able to keep my marriage off social media because obviously you cannot hide your wife. I don’t think that’s appropriate. What kind of woman would you like to marry? If I can get a woman like mother, I will be glad. My kind of woman should be God-fearing, she should have a heart of love, she should love humanity and love God. I am attracted to women that have emphathy, one that is hard-working and got a functional brain. Can you marry a woman that is wealthier than you? I think that is a win-win thing. I can marry a woman that is wealthier than me. It doesn’t hurt because I am not the kind of man that feels intimidated. I believe I am hard-working. I believe that I am also going to be very successful so if she’s wealthier than me, does it mean I cannot have more money than her tomorrow. But whatever it is, it is not a competition. If she’s wealthy, I am wealthy. If she’s happy, I am happy and vice versa. It is only when you are intimidated by a woman’s success you have an issue with that. What are your plans for 2020? I am very hopeful about this year. I have a lot of stuffs lined up. I will be making some sounds that my fans are not very conversant with me making. I am going to be changing the sound a bit. I will rebrand and look different from Slim Brown they’ve always known. We are taking it global this year. I am looking at expanding Oojee Records and signing on young talents, especially from the South East. I need to get those kinds of artistes that can become Wizkid, Davido from the South East. I will also be working on a few international collaborations, the kind of collaboration that will foster African music. Have you had your most memorable day yet? There have been a handful of memorable days. It is just really about the days when the hard work I put in is being appreciated. A lot of times, the fans made me feel special; a lot of times, my songs played on the radio. One was when I met Psquare for the first time in their house and when they saw me they were like “no be this guy wey sing my account is born again”. They were referring to lyrics in the song I did with Wizboy. Most embarrassing day? It is still my work as an artiste. It is a worse day when you have an expectation for your creativity and it does not get to be that way, especially when you go for a show and you didn’t kill the show the way you should or you put out a song and you get criticism that kills your spirit. The one I could remember was when I was in school and I was in a group with my friends. We had performed at a big show and when I came down from the stage and I expected my friends to give me thumbs up, but they didn’t. I felt like the ground should open for me to just enter and disappear.