BUA Group and the Africa CEO Forum are set to re-examine the role of Africa’s private sector at a forum. About 1, 800 industry leaders expected to meet in Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire  from March 9 to 10, to discuss the way forward for the sector. BUA Group Executive Chairman/CEO Abdul Samad Rabiu said: “I am convinced that the world’s major companies must – and can – bring about a paradigm shift in doing business right. BUA Group is, therefore, proud to participate in the Africa CEO Forum’s initiative to create a new movement promoting common-good capitalism. “Painting a new horizon for the African private sector is a strategic priority at a time when the inequality gap continues to widen, imbalances remain significant and environmental risk grows.” Some of the themes include: should Africa’s private sector integrate strategic priorities such as the fight against growing inequality, environmental battles, job creation, youth inclusion, etc.? How can these objectives be reconciled with competitiveness challenges? For two days, the Africa CEO Forum 2020 will drive public-private dialogue forward by providing a platform where economic leaders and public-sector representatives can discuss key sectoral challenges. It will also stimulate, as it does year after year, significant transactions in favour of the regional and pan-African growth of the private sector and the development of the continent in general. The 1, 800 participants expected at the Forum will be coming together around the theme of the role major companies have in society. Founded in 2012, the Africa CEO Forum is an annual gathering of decision-makers from the largest African companies, as well as international investors, multinational executives, heads of state, ministers, and representatives of the main financial institutions operating on the continent. Through its “Women in Business” and “Family Business” initiatives, it also aims to increase the representation of women in decision-making positions on the continent and to support the transformation of African family businesses.