Despite the gory tales that have trailed gas explosions across the country with the attendant human and material losses, not too many Nigerians have learnt any lessons from the incidents. OKODILI NDIDI and JULIANA AGBO report  By now, dealers on Liquefied Petroleum Gas would have taken precautions as to where to site the business and how best to operate it to reduce the risk of explosions. In Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), the story is the same. Just beside the GSM village, Wuse Zone 1 in the heart of the city, a mini gas depot is tucked between metal fabrication workshop and a cluster of restaurants. Close by, lines of naked electric cables that supply power to the welding workshops and other business centres around the highly walled premises dangle overhead. At that depot, which also hosts several mechanic workshops, tankers take turns to discharge gas into stationed large cylinders at the risk of possible explosion that may result from a spark of fire. Despite the lurking danger, people throng there in large numbers daily to buy gas, patronise the restaurants or repair their cars. The scenario could best be described as a disaster waiting to happen. Whether the authorities are aware of the looming danger is another matter entirely. But those operating the gas retail business are not oblivious of the danger they are toying with. In the last few weeks alone, fatal explosions had been reported in Kaduna State where five persons were killed and four others injured in a gas explosion. Kaduna police spokesman Yakubu Sabo, who confirmed the casualty, said the explosion emanated from a roadside gas vending shop in the business area of the town of Sabon Tasha, affecting passersby and shop owners. Within a spate of two weeks, at least seven persons were injured and property worth millions of naira destroyed after a cooking gas cylinder exploded and kindled a fire in Onitsha, Anambra State. Many are of the view that the authorities should be worried that hundreds of lives have been lost to gas explosions in different parts of the country. An energy expert, Jerome Okwu, who spoke with The Nation during a visit to the mini depot, attributed the major cause of gas explosions to poor awareness on the use of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) also known as cooking gas and the illegal locations of most of these gas plants.  Okwu, who pointed out that a lot of fake cylinders were in circulation, stressed the need to educate Nigerians on how to identify a fake or expired cylinder, adding that the authorities could do more to stop the risks of rising cylinder explosions. Speaking further, the safety expert reiterated the need to monitor and sensitise members of the public on the safe handling of petroleum products to prevent explosions. The expert also observed that most of the cylinders in use at the mini gas depot pose a severe danger to members of the public. He challenged the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) to be proactive and ensure that gas plants are built in safe places. However, a trader at GSM Village, Ike Okechukwu, who called on the relevant authorities to carry out risk assessments across the nation, said the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), failed to follow-up on its pledge to monitor and sensitise members of the public on the safe handling of petroleum and gas products. He said: “There is the need to ensure safety in everyday life and the procedures and principles guiding it. The relevant authorities need to organise sensitisation programmes to all gas retail outlets on how to operate their business with minimal risk. “They are expected to carry out risk assessments while executing their tasks and control the workplace and households.” Another expert, Stan Chibuike, who said the country will continue to witness gas explosions if proactive measures are not taken to ensure gas plants are built in safe places, urged the government to come up with policies that would ensure that all plants are built in safe places. According to him, gas refilling is a high-risk activity that should not be allowed close to residential areas. Some of the vendors at the mini depot of LPG said they were unaware of the risk the gas plants pose to people. They, however, said they would comply with regulations so long as such regulations would not put them out of business. One of them, who identified himself as Praise Chibuzor, said: “We are doing everything that the DPR said we should do. No one has told us this location is illegal, but we are ready to follow the rules.” 