 NOLLYWOOD is not smiling. The actors are seeking financial support for some of their colleagues who are currently battling with one illness or the other. Ernest Asuzu, Victor Olaotan, Pa Kasumu are among entertainers that need help. Last week, after over three years on a sick bed, a picture of veteran actor Victor Olaotan resurfaced on the internet. In the portrait, the talented actor’s health condition appears deteriorating as he sat on a wheel chair. In October 2016, the Tinsel star was involved in an auto accident and suffered nervous system injury. He was driving to a movie set when the ghastly accident took place around Apple Junction, in Festac, Lagos. Following his recent photo, colleagues, family and friends of the actor have reached out for financial assistance. The 68 year-old actor needs $250,000 for his medical treatment. Worried by Olaotan’s ill-health, actor Seun Ajayi took to his Instagram handle and wrote: “Please let’s help Uncle Victor Olaotan get back on his feet.” The actor who used to be a devoted member of the Catholic Church once said that the problems in Africa require more spiritual fervency. “I grew up in a Catholic setting and was a committed member until I left for a Pentecostal church. The problems in Africa require more spiritual fervency than what the Catholicism was giving me, so I had to leave,” he was quoted. Also, popular actor, Ernest Asuzu, trended after a video clip where he was begging on the streets of Lagos surfaced online. In an Instagram video shared by John Louis, the actor was shirtless and seen begging for alms on the street of Oke-Afa in Isolo, Lagos. “So we are calling on Nollywood to come and assist their member. It is not only to act the film, but this guy also cannot even walk,” Louis said. Asuzu, who is currently down with a stroke-related disease, said he deliberately removed his shirt so that Nollywood practitioners would feel his pain. He also solicited financial assistance from well-meaning Nigerians to enable him to take care of his medical bills. He, however, said people should stop spreading false rumour about him. “I’m alive! People are just spreading false rumours that am dead. What do they gain in doing that? Too much-wicked ones in the world.” Movie practitioner, Emeka Rollas, had reportedly said that the reason actors seeks for financial assistance is because entertainers are not well paid. According to him, for every movies aired on TV stations royalties are paid to producers and not actors.”