 Eminent indigenes of Ondo state under the aegis of ‘Coalition 2020’ have urged the six governors in the Southwest and other stakeholders not to use the security outfit code named ‘Amotekun’ to settle political scores. The apolitical group said it believed in good governance as an apparatus for development and social advancement of the Sunshine state and its people. While embracing the good initiatives of the Western Nigeria Security Network(Amotekun) the Coalition warned that it should not be a tool for vendetta against perceived political opponents. In a communique signed by its Chairman,Bamiduro Dada,a former Commissioner for Local Goverment and Chieftaincy Affairs as well as the group’s spokesperson, Princess Jumoke Akindele,the former Speaker of the State Assembly said they were seeking the best choice and personality for the next governorship candidate in Ondo state and in subsequent elections. The Coalition applauded the move by the National Assembly at reviewing Nigeria’s constitution in relation to the Electoral Act It said “the body sees this as a welcome development, if the constitution can sincerely be looked into and amended with a view to providing the country with a more reliable and transparent electoral process that can be adjudged to have given all participants a free level of participation ” Without doubt, electronic voting system if adopted will help reduce incessant electoral violence, ballot snatching, falsification of figures and so on and so forth”. On security challenges, the group expressed concern and compelled Government at all levels to be more alive to their constitutional responsibilities of providing adequate and effective security to all Nigerians. It condoled with the government and people of of Kaduna, Katsina, Adamawa, Bornu and all those whose loved ones have been affected by the recent spate of insecurity in Nigeria. The Coalition 2020 maintained that the citizenry deserves good governance and effective political leadership and are therefore entitled to dividends of good governance such as free and qualitative education. It emphasised that Ondo State must be returned to the era of free basic primary and secondary education as well as heavily subsidized tertiary education and affordable healthcare service as well as other basic functional amenities like free pipe borne water and good roads. The communique also commended the naming of the Ondo State University of Science and Technology (OSUSTECH)Okitipupa after late Olusegun Agagu,urging the state government to take active steps to honor and recognize all legends living and dead particularly Chief Adebayo Adefarati of blessed memory. The coalition congratulated all political parties affected by the recent INEC deregistration exercise for their victory in court.