A non-governmental organisation, Amal Outreach, has offered free screening and medication for over 3,000 people in Lagos. The four-day community health fair, which started on February 13 and ended 16,  was meant to prevent non-communicable diseases like hypertension and diabetes in underserved communities. The outreach, which held in Oke-Arin, Alakoro, Apongbon, and Balogun, a central business district in the west of Lagos Island, attracted thousands of residents and traders who exploited the opportunity to know their health status. The managing trustee of the NGO, Dr. Folake Lawal, an infectious disease specialist, said the motive is in line with the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG), which is to ensure healthy living and promote well-being for all at all ages. According to Lawal, there is a high prevalence of hypertension and relatively low prevalence of diabetes among Nigerians, adding that the primary focus of the NGO is to improve community engagement toward creating self-sustaining primary healthcare systems. “It is estimated that three out of every 10 Nigerians have hypertension, while one of every 10 has diabetes mellitus. These diseases, when uncontrolled, lead to complications such as kidney failure, heart disease, strokes sometimes, leading to crippling expenses, lost wages and productivity to patients and their families,” she explained. On the strategies to combat these diseases, Lawal revealed that her team has set out a year-long pilot programme, which focused on building relationships with the community members through local residents trained to provide medical support and engagement on the diseases. “Hypertension and diabetes are some of the top silent killer diseases in the world, but they can be prevented and control, if detected early. This is the reason, after screening them, we offer dispenses medication and refers them to primary health centres. “Apart from that, we are recruiting interns from these areas that will follow up with patients. They will continuously engage, screen and ensure they see doctors when necessary because we want to serve as a pillar for social community development by providing post health fair community support.”