 The bill proposal for creation of the Ekiti State Security Network Agency otherwise called ‘Amotekun Corps’ on Thursday scaled second readings few hours it was presented to the House of Assembly. The bill, after exhaustive debate which started around 10: 45 am and ended 1: 50pm, was immediately committed to the House Committee on Security for clause-by-clause and point-by-point examination of the bill proposal. The development followed approval of the draft bill on Wednesday as a document of the state after marathon deliberation at its weekly meeting, which lasted till 9:30 pm before it was later transmitted to the Assembly at wee hours of Thursday for legislative scrutiny. At the Thursday’s plenary presided by Speaker Funminiyi Afuye, there was exhaustive deliberation on the bill as the House unanimously declared support for the establishment of Operation Amotekun. It noted that the security outfit was in consonance with Section 33, 24, 40, 45 that imposes clear responsibility on citizens to ensure security of their lives and property. The House added that every Nigeria has right to life in line with Section 33 of the 1999 Constitution as espoused by Section 4 (C ) of the Amotekun bill which emphasised protection of lives and property as primary responsibility of the security outfit. Afuye said the House won’t breach it’s rules and standing order in quest to give the bill expeditious passage, noting the House each provisions of the law will be carefully scrutinized to suit the peculiarities of Ekiti people. “It has passed through the first and second readings. Both moral and jurispridence aspects of the bill had been extensively debated. We have committed it to the House Committee on Security, which will be holding a public hearing today (Thursday) at 2pm. ” We are still on course and in line with procedures of legislative process. We have not breached any procedure and we won’t breach the procedure in passing the bill into law”, he said. Following the motion which was approved by the House, the Speaker thanked his colleagues for the painstaking consideration and incisive comments on the bill. He expressed readiness of the House to ensure speedy passage of the bill proposal to give Amotekun legal backing and further provide adequate security for Ekiti residents, so as to live normal social and economic life without any modicum of security threats. The Nation gathered the bill will be passed into law on Friday as the Speaker had directed the Majority Leader, Hon Gboyega Aribisogan, who had earlier moved the motion for adjournment to Tuesday to amend the motion for adjournment to Friday, February 14. The Speaker admonished the committee to be painstaking in the passage, saying: “we all know that internal and external migrations had caused banditry, kidnappings, robbery and insurgency in some African Nations, Nigeria inclusive and solution to it by law is protection of lives and property. “The insecurity in our territory had led to loss of lives, people could no longer travel and farmers are no longer safe. Even if you do commercial farming, some people will go there and destroy it and this has been reducing the resources of our people. “Recently, someone was kidnapped and the family paid a ransom of N20m, one can imagine the psychological and economic effects of this and that necessitated the Amotekun issue,” he said. Deputy Speaker Hakeem Jamiu and his counterpart from Moba constituency 1, Hon. Adeyemi Ajibade said the rising waves of kidnappings, banditry, armed robbery had overwhelmed the conventional security agencies and that necessitated the pragmatic initiative by the southwest governors to look inward. “The high level of displacement and migration from war-torn regions, robbery, kidnappings, herdsmen-farmers clashes, insurgency and terrorism had made things difficult for our conventional security architecture. “It is now obvious that our police and army are overwhelmed and these menaces could only be tackled at the regional level. Amotekun has brought us to that level now. “Some of the killings and kidnappings perpetrated in our nation showed that there were internal connivance. We must have locals who can really gather intelligence. The Amotekun personnel can even go digital. They can monitor our people with technology. I want to say that this bill reflect the wishes of everybody in the southwest”. Lawmakers representing Ikole constituency lI, Hon. Adeoye Aribasoye and his counterpart from Ikere II, Hon. Tunde Idowu, dispelled the insinuation that Amotekun is an alternative security to the police, saying it would only play a complementary role. A member representing Ekiti West l, Hon. Tajudeen Akingbolu, had deviated a little, by suggesting that section 35, of the proposed bill should be expunged and section 7, 18 should be amended. He argued that, the section which stipulated that “a suit shall not commence against the agency unless 30 days written notice of intention to commence an action is issued to the agency”, will impede people’s access to justice. Akingbolu also added that sections 7 and 18 of the proposed bill, which dealt with issue of composition of the board should be rejigged and amended to include professional bodies and civil society so that it can be apolitical and independent. “Section 35 if not expunged will bring inequality and injustice. Section 35 should be amended so that people can have access to court . Sections 7 and 18, should also be amended so that members of respected professional bodies like ; Nigerian Bar Association can be on the board. This will make it apolitical”, he advised. Others who contributed to the debate include members representing Ijero constituency, Hon. Ademola Mathew Ojo and Ilole I, Hon. Gboyegan Aribisogan, Ekiti southwest 1, Hon Yemi Ayokunle, Efon, Hon. Goke Olajide, Ido Osi II, Hon Akin Osho, Ado constituency I and II, Hon Toyin Lucas and Hon. Kemi Balogun respectively. Others were: members representing Ekiti East Constituencies l and II respectively, Hons. Juwa Adegbuyi and Lateef Akanle, Ekiti West II, Hon. Oyekola Adeoye, Moba Hon. Michael Ola, Ido/Osi II, Hon Akin Osho and Irepodun/Ifelodun constituency l, Hon Femi Akindele.