One person has been killed in Ebonyi as the primaries for the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) turned bloody on Friday with pockets of violence recorded in various parts of the state. The victim, Mr Enyinnaya Ibiam, who was a staff of Akanu Ibiam Federal Polytechnic, Uwanna, Afikpo north local government area, was shot to death by an unknown member of rival group of the party in the area. Though reports were sketchy at the time of this report, it was, however, gathered that the bullet that killed him was intended for another person. Commissioner of Police, Awosola Awotinde, confirmed the killing. He said the police are on the trail of the shooter and will soon arrest him to answer for his crime. He, however, did not disclose the name of the shooter. However, an eye witness said the shooter was a development centre coordinator for one of the development centres in the council. The eyewitness, who spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of victimisation, said there was serious clash between two groups at the venue of the councillorship election at Uwanna where armed thugs shot sporadically into the air to scare voters but it took the intervention of the police who stormed the area and stopped them. “There was a serious problem but the police came and teargassed them and the boys were dispersed. But later when the police left, the coordinator was said to have pulled out a gun and shot at his brother who is opposing his preferred candidate but fortunately, he dodged the bullet and the bullet hit Ibiam who was standing at his back,” she stated. Meanwhile, a wife of a journalist, one Mrs Ogochukwu Nweke, was allegedly attacked and stripped naked by some armed thugs in Abakaliki, capital of Ebonyi State. The husband of the victim, Chukwudi Nweke, a worker at the Ebonyi State Broadcasting Cooperation (EBBC), who spoke to reporters, said a youth leader in Ishielu local government area led the attack on his wife. Mrs Nweke contested the councillorship position in Ogboji Ward in Ishielu. “They beat her up, stripped her naked and collected all her belongings, including the originals of her credentials, her PDP nomination form, my laptop and many other personal things including N110,000. This happened at Aristocrat Hotel where the local government party executives invited her for her clearance “I need the assistance of all to help me recover my wife’s original academic credentials. “I most humbly call on the passionate father of the state, David Nweze Umahi, and the wife to wade into this matter. “My house is under siege and we have been in the bush since yesterday as they are still trailing us. My wife and my entire family are under threat and fear,” he stated. 