By Adedayo Adebajo The world has become so little in the last few minutes than it was a decade ago. With new innovations of the digital economy, we can do much more in so little time, with less effort, cost and intermediaries. We do not need to worry or fear for lack of information nor need to be stressed of too much information. With the internet and connected devices, information is collected in their original true state and stored. With the aid of the prevailing digitized system, data collection and processing into real and required information just got easier. To take it a step further, the collected, processed or unprocessed data gets stored in a distributed, immutable, fully decentralized and transparent ledger for all to access. Then, trust becomes a lesser concern in doing business in a trustless-trust system where all participants are incentivized to do well. Take for instance; the crypto trading space is a volatile space where profits are earned in seconds and losses are heavily acquired in the same period. Why? Because buying and selling happens in a matter of fractions of a second in time. It is because our money is digitized and decentralized that we have total control of it without the need for authorization by a third party. It is also because we can now do business with several unknown people from various parts of the world with little concern for trust as we have a perfect system. That is exactly how easy it is to now do business. As a businessman, think of what you can do with lesser intermediaries, cheaper transaction costs, faster deliveries, lesser cost of businesses. As an end-user, think of what you can do with less trust issues, more information and details on your consumption, transparent system via a shared database and more. As a nation, imagine what you can do with less corruption and transparent governance. A business world free of data manipulation, vote rigging, financial privacy violations, online payment hacks, centralization of data ownerships among others. Imagine a world where you own what you own and in total control of use in seconds. Business is conducted as fast as the mind conceives it. How then do we really apply this technology into our day to day activities? It will not entirely be an accurate perspective to view the solutions provided by the technology as solving a particular problem, but as an enhancement to already existing infrastructure. In as much as these disruptive technologies tend to solve some pending issues, they also add a set of different layers of enhancements of comfort and luxury to the necessities provided by the previously adopted solutions. It brings about the ability to do more, gain more. So as not to be more focused on just one business, let’s take a deep dive into the common business processes for most establishments. Below are some common business processes stating how they are being done and how they could be done better with the blockchain technology. Each of these enhancements are made in reference to the Ardor blockchain platform several functionalities — product of Jelurida Swiss SA. Let’s take for instance, Administration which is basically the process of onboarding and properly identifying employees. The usual manual ways of doing things can be unanimously concluded to be archaic and slow. It also extends to the employee management, scoring and remuneration based on performance which means several sheets and document reviewing. With the blockchain technology, it becomes easy to automate a few steps that shortens hours and days of important decisions and steps into a couple of seconds using lightweight contracts, blockchain based KYC among others. Even better, all the processes becomes transparent. Banking: This is always an issue for business engagements due to the several required processes and bureaucracies of third party activities and approvals involved. With the blockchain technology, banks are not totally eliminated in the whole financial processes, but interactions can with them can be reduced to almost nothing through the use of geographically unrestricted cryptocurrencies accepted everywhere to transact in seconds. This means, no POS transactions issues, no bank transfer issues, no ATM issues, no inter-bank transfer delay problems. Just a fast business transaction where every involved party smiles away. Sales and Operations which basically includes the processes required to plan inventory level based on customer demand, production capacity to accepting order, delivering services and bills to the customer to conclude each sale can also get better with this technology. An enhancement provided by the blockchain technology in this regard includes the supply chain application that enables the customer to not only track the location of their bought goods, but the processes of production of what they want to consume. Then we have the “Transaction Voucher” feature which allows proper deposit of the right invoices into the seller’s account upon approval by the buyer among others. Procurement: This entails all the steps to secure parts and materials such as purchasing, receiving, invoice reconciliation among others. Procurement as a basic activity passes through several desks for approval which in a way delay major activities and eventually afflicted with irregularities of a non-transparent financial system. Procurement as a process follows some certain rules which can be programed into a self-executing contract. As it is tied to financials, the contracts (lightweight smart contracts) releases the funds when these conditions are met with no need for human intervention. This way, a lot of intermediaries can be done without, time saved and efforts reduced. The Ardor blockchain platform developed by Jelurida Swiss, represented in Africa by Jelurida Africa DLT is the only blockchain platform with pre-developed rich functionalities such as; dead-man switch, transaction vouchers, lightweight contracts, encrypted messaging system, voting, peer-to-peer marketplace, cloud storage and more, can be powered by the Sun. It was specifically designed for today’s and future businesses with amazing innovative features to change the way we do businesses and save cost, time with increased satisfaction for all parties. In summary, the blockchain technology offers not just a way to increase sales by tapping into the international markets but also reducing stress, efforts, intermediaries and cost of doing businesses. Adebajo is Managing Director of Jelurida Africa DLT, an extension of the Switzerland based Blockchain Software Company; Jelurida with the mission to fast-track blockchain adoption in Africa.