 Kwara state police command has denied alleged discovery of kidnappers den in Ilorin, the state capital. The command condemned the report that has been trending in the social media in the last few days as false. It therefore advised social media platforms to, at all times verify, their stories before going public. In a statement, command’s spokesperson, Ajayi Okasanmi said: “The attention of Kwara state police command has been drawn to the false story of uncovering of a kidnappers’ den in Ilorin. “This story has been in circulation especially in the social media in the past few days. “The command wishes to correct the distortion in the story and straighten the records. “The fact of the case is that, on 21st of February 2020, information was received from Oko Erin community that there was a group of people suspected to be kidnappers in their community. “The basis of this information was that one Wahab Rukayat ‘F’ aged 16y years, who was sent on an errand by her mother was said to have gone missing. In the course of searching for her, she was found in the company of the said group of people who explained that they were networking marketers of GNLD products sharing flyers and giving training to prospective marketers who showed interest in the business. “The alarm raised by her mother in the course of these events attracted the attention of many persons from whom the story of the people being suspected kidnappers emanated. “On receipt of the information at the police station, detectives from ‘B’ Division, Surulere promptly moved to the scene which already was being crowded. The people in the house being alleged to be kidnappers were immediately taken to the Divisional Police Headquarters, Surulere along with the purported victim of the said kidnap. Investigations, however, revealed that the people were, in fact, marketers of the popular GNLD brand who were carrying out networking training for interested members of the public. “The said Rukayat had, on collecting one of their marketing flyers, abandoned her errand and joined the training exercise. This led to her mother’s assumption that she was missing and the ensuing misunderstanding and consequent events. The matter has therefore been resolved. “It is in the light of this that the Kwara state police command is hereby advising members of the public to disregard the said story about the uncovering of a suspected kidnappers den in Ilorin. “Commissioner of police, Kwara state Command Kayode Egbetokun is by this medium, assuring everyone that the police will continue to carry out their duties to maximum capacity in ensuring that Kwara state remains safe for people to live, work and visit.”