 THE courts have been busy with cases of men alleged to have criminally sought sensual pleasure from their daughters. Yesterday the Ikeja Sexual Offences and Domestic Violence Court fixed April 30 to deliver judgement in the case of a 37-year-old commercial motorcyclist, Emmanuel Idoko, accused of sexually assaulting his 12-year-old daughter by testing her virginity with his fingers. Justice Sybil Nwaka fixed the date after prosecutor Jide Boye and defence counsel Adeyemi Adegbite presented final written addresses, News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports. While testifying for the prosecution on March 5, 2019, Dr Oyedeji Alagbe, a medical consultant with the Mirabel Centre, a sexual assault referral facility, narrated what the complainant had revealed to him during her medical examination. Alagbe said, “The client declared in her history that her father, though not married to her mother, had her and her male sibling living with him. “Her ordeal started in 2016, a year before she was referred to the Mirabel Centre. “She said her father came home and said that he heard from people that she was no longer a virgin and he needed to test her to see if it was true. “He forced her to undress and said he will use his finger to test her. The client was reluctant, but he scolded her and eventually did it with his fingers. “He also said that he would use his manhood to examine her and she refused. He beat her and he subsequently started torturing her in the home because she kept turning down his requests.” Idoko, while testifying in his defence on November 21, 2019, denied putting his fingers in his daughter’s private part to test her virginity or seeing her naked. “My daughter is following bad friends, my neighbours said all sorts of things about her. I initially did not believe it until I saw it myself. “On November 21, 2017, I saw my daughter with some boys while her brother was in the house watching television. When I called her name, the boys ran away and I asked her to tell me who her boyfriend was. “When I tried to beat her, she tried to fight me like those friends of hers who beat up their parents. That was the reason I beat her that day,” he said. According to the prosecution, Idoko committed the offence of sexual assault by penetration between July to November 2017 at his residence located at Akewusola St., Oworoshoki, Lagos. Also, an Ikeja Chief Magistrates’ Court yesterday remanded a 50-year-old traditional medicine practitioner, Felix Okon  in Kirikiri Correctional Service for allegedly defiling his two underage daughters. Chief Magistrate P.E. Nwaka who issued the order said Okon will  remain in custody pending legal advice. Okon lives in the Ipaja area of  Lagos. Prosecutor Christopher John told the court that Okon committed the offence in August 2019  at his residence. John alleged that Okon caused his two daughters, aged 16 and 14 to drink alcohol before defiling them. He said the matter was reported at the police station and the defendant was arrested. Chief Magistrate Nwaka did not take Okon’s plea, and adjourned the case until March 18. A man Ikechukwu Nzekwe, who allegedly defiled a nine-year-old daughter of his neighbour, has been remanded in a correctional centre, by an Ikeja Sexual Offences and Domestic Violence Court in Lagos. 