Commuters on the Lagos-Ogun Mass Transit Train Services (MTTS) have called on the Federal Government to replace the locomotive engines and coaches on the narrow gauge to enhance services. The commuters, while speaking with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) correspondent onboard to monitor the MTTS operation, said that the train service needed an upgrade and improvement. They said: “We suffered a lot to move around between September 2019, when the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) shut down its operation and January 23, 2020, when the operations were resumed.” Speaking to NAN at Ebute-Metta Junction Railway Station before boarding, Mr. Matthew Omoniyi, a stockbroker, said that train services on narrow gauge line returned with some efficiency, but with old engines and coaches. Omoniyi, an Ijoko-bound commuter, who hailed the Federal Government’s efforts on Lagos-Ibadan Standard Gauge rail line, said that the narrow gauge line should be made befitting and comfortable. “Service has improved but unfortunately we cannot call this kind of locomotives and coaches on narrow gauge the state-of-the-art. They must be changed. “The government is still using the old coaches and old engines that are not functioning well. Occasionally, the engines break down in the middle of the journey and passengers are stranded. “It is better the government either maintains them or scrap them and bring in new engines because the narrow gauge is what the masses need. For instance, these engines cannot pull more than the 12 or 14 coaches. “If the engines can pull up to 25 coaches and those coaches are available, most of the challenges of overcrowding and sitting on the roof top of a moving train will end. “The NRC cannot add coaches to these engines because they are old; the engines will not be able to pull them and that is what causes train congestion and lack of comfort,” Omoniyi said. A Kajola-bound commuter, Mr. Adesina Onasanya, who also praised the Federal Government for restoring train operation, said: “But they need to change the engines and coaches for us. The engines and the coaches are not good. “Last week, the engine stopped at Mushin and the train officials had to come back to EBJ (Ebute Meta Junction) to bring another engine. You can imagine the hours lost while doing this.” Another commuter onboard, Mr. Ademola Abolarinde, said: “We are used to the train but it will be very good if the railway management changes the locomotives and the coaches. “Last week, we wasted about two hours on the trip when the locomotive stopped. However, the train is better than the road because the traffic jam on the road is bad.” A public servant, Mr. Jelili Sonuga, who noted that rail transport remained the best, however, said that services on the narrow gauge were behind the standard in most parts of the world. He said: “This service is behind when compared to other parts of the world. I boarded train outside this country, the difference is clear. “We are still behind but we can be there. We have to start somewhere. “We have to improve the system and maintain it. Maintenance should be our number one priority. “The government should shift attention to railway; improve on the narrow gauge line and on the rolling stocks.” Sonuga, who commended the Federal Government’s investment in rail transport, said that if successive governments continued in railway development, it would be good for the masses. According to him, if there are many trains on regular schedules and new locomotive engines that can pull more than 20 coaches, the issue of hanging, standing or sitting on roof top and other risks will reduce. Another commuter, Mr. Olakunle Shobande, who joined the already-filled up train at Ikeja, told NAN that he preferred to stand in the train to using road transport because train was cheaper and faster. Shobande said: “I am standing because I have no choice; our hope is in the ongoing standard gauge line and we know things will be better then. “However, the government should change these engines and coaches.’’ The commuters, who spoke with NAN correspondent onboard, said that despite the challenges, they still preferred to commute by the rail, begging the government to enhance the service on narrow gauge. A NAN correspondent reports that the Kajola-bound train departed Iddo Terminus at 5:15pm and got to Ijoko in Ogun State, at 6:58pm, waiting for about three minutes at each station along the route. The train of 12 coaches with 90 seats each, which was almost filled up at the point of departure at Iddo Terminus, stopped at every station to pick passengers. NAN reports that overcrowding made passing from one point to another in the train almost difficult, while there was heat. On timing, the train got to EBJ at 5:24pm, Oshodi at 5:48 pm, Shogunle at 5:53pm, Ikeja at 6:08pm, Agege at 6:13pm, Iju at 6:25pm, Agbado at 6:33pm, Itoki at 6:43 pm, Opo Suuru at 6:51pm and Ijoko at 6:58 pm.