Okodili Ndidi, Abuja The Surveyor General of the Federation, Taiwo Adeniran, has rewarded Staff of the Office who won medals at the just concluded Federal Public Service Games (FEPSGA) held in Lafia, Nasarawa State. Speaking during the award ceremony, Adeniran said sports should be taken as a way of life for workers especially to stay healthy and contribute usefully to the economy. He urged all the Directors and Staff of the Office to take sports seriously and to always participate in the monthly exercise by the Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation. According to him, “the world is a basket of sorrow punctuated by celebration, and such celebration to an extent is the oil that runs life. Celebration produces joy for peace of the mind that helps one makes progress. This elebration is to honour Staff that performed creditably at the 2019 FEPSGA. He prided that of the 90 MDAs that competed in various games, Office of the Surveyor General of the Federation came 6 with two Gold Medals, eight Silver, and four Bronze Medals. According to him, his tenure would continue to encourage sports and healthy living. National President of FEPSGA, Mr. Aloku Amaebi in his speech disclosed that efforts were being made to see that FEPSGA would be producing athletes that would be representing Nigeria like the Military and Para-Military have done. He also disclosed that records have shown that the performances at FEPSGA equate that of the National Sports Festival, while commending the Adeniran for his enthusiasm and support that motivated the feat recorded by the Staff of his Office. The Director of Human Resource Management, Mr. Igbokwe Felix Onyehira said the feat achieved by the sportspersons of OSGoF came with huge sacrifice, and as such the celebration was to encourage them so that efforts were not wasted. Acting Manager of the Team, Surveyor Yusuf Maisamari, stated that 33 persons from the Ofdice featured at the 2019 FEPSGA and returned with 14 medals unlike the 2016 where only 10 people went and returned with medals.