 Perhaps if the country has got it right since early 60s when Nigeria was the highest producer of palm oil in the world, the situation might have bail the country out of its current economic strangulation in the area of agriculture. Then, Nigeria was the largest producer of palm oil in the world with a market share of 43 per cent.  But today the music has changed likewise the dancing step. According to the international Agricultural index, Nigeria last year, had a world share of 2.9 per cent, with Indonesia leading by 33 million metric tons, Malaysia, 19.8 million metric tons; Thailand, 2 million; Colombia, 1.108 million metric tons and Nigeria, 970,000 metric tonnes. In order to re-jig the situation, at the stakeholders’ meeting held by the Federal Ministry of Finance ( FMoF) in December, 2018, it was unanimously agreed that no company must be allowed to import large quantity of Crude Palm Oil ( CPO) and refined products under Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Trade Liberalisation Scheme (ETLS). Nigeria’s annual requirement for palm oil is about 2.5 million metric tonnes while only 1.25 or 50% is domestically produced, leaving a gap of 1.25 million metric tonnes that is filled via importation thus, giving rise to foreign exchange exposure of $500 million annually.  CBN interventions However the current intervention of the Central Bank of Nigeria, (CBN) has assisted the agricultural sector to bounce back. The CBN has called the state Governors to assist in stopping the outflow of about $500 million annually for the importation of palm oil. The call included a holistic approach in providing the needful for the revolution of palm oil which include land for commercial cultivation of palm oil plantation. Aside this, investigation revealed that the apex bank current tariff regime of 10 per cent duty and 25 per cent levy on importation of palm oil and the inclusion of palm oil in the list of commodities that do not qualify for the CBN forex allocation has drastically discouraged importation of Palm oil and the home industries gradually making appreciable profit. This policy to a greater extent have been protecting the local industries like Okomu Oil Palm Company Plc; Presco Plc; WSNL; Aden River Estate; IMC; JB Farms; Agripalm; National Palm Produce Association of Nigeria (NPPAN), and the Oil Palm Growers Association of Nigeria, representing the interest of small scale producers that account for about 80 per cent palm oil production in the country.  Border closure More daring was the current closure of the border by the Federal government which has generated a lot of missed feelings, but to Palm oil producer at home it was a welcome idea that has not only encouraged the resuscitation of the moribund Palm oil industries but also put a lot of pressure on the existing once to meet up the challenges of local consumption. Speaking on the effect of border closure as it affects the local industries, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Okomu Oil Palm Plc, producers of Banga Palm Oil and NOKO10 rubber brands, Dr. Graham Hefer, noted that it was a blessing in disguise which should continue in order to protect the home industries. Hefer noted that “the effect it has had on our local market share is that there have been some new companies requesting for Crude Palm Oil that we have not had on our books previously since the land borders were closed.” According to him, the border closure did not determine the price of Crude Palm Oil, CPO because the price is being determined by the international market.  Speaking in the same vein an  agronomist Dr.Pelumi Adelani explained that the profit margins being experienced by the CPO producers at home could be  traced to two major factors, the first being the  CBN interventions and the recent closure of the land border. He argued that though the local producers could not meet the local demand but if the border has been porous, all manner of importation would have taken place which at the long run will not only discourage local producer but make nonsense of their efforts to create job opportunity. Adelani explained that since Nigeria has lost its position as one of the world’s largest palm oil producers, Nigeria is yet to recover and take its proper place in the comity of crude palm oil-producing nations owing to the discovery of oil, which changed the country’s palm oil narrative of the 60’s. According to him Indonesia and Malaysia have now surpassed Nigeria’s production becoming the global leaders in oil palm production. He however pointed out that all is not yet lost as the country can still take back its lost glory if the current government policy continues. He regretted that poor statistics is affecting the industry, noting that this has forced the operator to rely on old data to operate. According to him, the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (FMARD) and other relevant government agencies have not been able to provide data on the industry, forcing stakeholders to rely on data provided by foreign agencies such as Index Mundi, whose data are sometimes outdated. He pointed out that Nigeria requires 450,000 tonnes to make up for her annual production shortfall, adding that Nigeria imports more than the shortfall, making the country a dumping ground for imported palm oil.  Expectations Since the provision of 30 billion injected into CPO through small scale industries that accounted for about 80 per cent of the local production, there is ray of hope that within a short period of time there will be Palm oil revolution in the country. Adelani pointed out that Oil palm can produce more oil than any other oil seed crop. “About 90 percent of palm oil is used in the production of foods, while the remaining 10 percent is used by the non-foods industry, industry players say. “Foods like noodles, vegetable oil, biscuits, chips, margarines, shortenings, cereals, baked stuff, washing detergents, and even cosmetics are made from palm oil.” Hefer, regretted that “another factor that poses challenges to our business is illegal importation of banned products and CPO through the Economic Community of West African States. “The practice creates a situation where the company is unable to compete with these illegal goods and the likes of the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control and the Standards Organisation of Nigeria are unable to, or incapable of, deterring the sale of these illegal products in the country.” He however noted that the future of the business is lucrative if all things been equal. A big time importer of CPO Emeka Okoro argued that though he had been in the business in the last decade, the recent government policy through the CBN has actually forced him to look for reputable palm oil industry in the country to ply his trade with and the result has been mutually beneficial. “As a business man it was cheaper for me to import for my supply but The current tariff regime of 10 per cent duty and 25 per cent levy on importation of palm oil and the inclusion of palm oil in the list of commodities that do not qualify for the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) forex allocation has discouraged me from importation. It is no longer profitable.” Okoro explained. According to him the porosity of the border  and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Trade Liberalisation Scheme (ETLS) actually encouraged importation through the land border which is cheaper “but since the closure and encouragement given to CPO producers in terms of Anchor borrower scheme  by the CBN, it is no longer business as usual.” While speaking to the Nation on phone, Okoro explained that he has to relax a bit and study the government policy properly before he can finally decide what to do, noting that “all those who are doing illegal business under the cover of importation actually spoiled the market for genuine and serious importers, but if we get it right, it will be a win, win situation for all at the long run.” Okoro’s position was also shared by a retired former comptroller of Custom turned exporter, Mr. Robbert Okozie who pointed out that the CBN policy will go a long way to encourage local production and possibly a revolution in the industry in some years to come. He argued that the closure of the border will go a long way to make this laudable dream a reality 