MORE Houses of Assembly in the Southwest on Wednesday got the drafts of the Bill on Western Nigeria Security Network, codenamed Operation Amotekun. The drafts were transmitted by the executive arms in Ogun, Ondo and Ekiti states for legistive works and passage. The Osun State government, on Tuesday, sent the e-version of the bill to Speaker Sunday Owoeye, who promised that the memo would be given expedition consideration. The Ondo State Executive Council approved  the bill of the State Security Network Agency and Amotekun Corps at its meeting yesterday. It was learnt that the Council, in an exhaustive session, considered every detail of the Bill that was presented by the State Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr Kola Olawoye (SAN.) The bill has six parts and 44 sections. “It is also gratifying to disclose that every apprehension or fears expressed have been adequately looked into,” Olawoye said. According the bill, royal fathers will have roles to play in the operations of the security outfit pursuant to its passage into law by the State Assembly. It said: “The government finds it pertinent to reiterate that this laudable initiative is aimed at complimenting the efforts of the nation’s security agencies. It is also necessary to encourage the good people of Ondo State to take maximum advantage of this opportunity.” The Ogun State Exco also approved the proposal for the creation of the State Security Network Agency during a meeting that lasted several hours on Tuesday. Governor Dapo Abiodun recounted the attack unleashed on the All Progressives Congress (APC) members when he was presented with the flag to fly the party’s ticket on February 11, last year. He blamed the attack on those opposed to him being the APC candidate. They pelted leaders of the party in Abeokuta, including President Muhammadu Buhari, Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. The governor, however, said he had forgiven those who visited violence on the party’s leaders and supporters. Abiodun said he  holds no grudge against anyone that played a part in the incident that happened on “a day where the highest level of political intolerance on the the country was witnessed”. The Commissioner for Justice and Attorney-General of the state, Adegbolahan Adeniran, said the presentation of the bill before the Exco  followed the earlier approval by the Attorney-Generals and Commissioners of Justice of the six Southwest states. Adeniran assured the people that the state’s Amotekun Corp would be headed by a state commandant, adding that the bill also allows for collaborative efforts among the six Southwest states, should the need arise. He expressed optimism that the bill will get speedy attention from the lawmakers so that the governor can also give the required assent in no long time. Adeniran said: “We presented the bill for the creation of the Ogun State Security Network Agency or what many call the Amotekun Corp Bill of 2020. “Today, the Executive Council of Ogun State met and adopted a draft, as amended, of a bill for a law to establish the Ogun State Security Network Agency. This agency will comprise the Amotekun Corp and this bill will be transmitted to the House of Assembly before the end of this week.” In Ibadan, the Oyo State House of Assembly promised to give accelerated passage to the bill on the State Security Network, codenamed Amotekun. House Committee on Information Chairman Kazeem Olayanju told The Nation yesterday that the bill will today go through the first and second readings, in line with earlier pledge to give it accelerated passage. The bill had earlier been transmitted to the Assembly by the Executive. The Ministry of Justice put finishing touches to the bill after a regional framework was adopted by the Attorneys-General of the six Southwest states last Friday. The states are: Oyo, Osun, Ondo, Ogun, Lagos and Ekiti. The AGs met in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, to adopt the proposal of the three-man committee set up earlier for the task. Speaker of the Ekiti House of Assembly Funminiyi Afuye said the bill seeking for the creation of Ekiti State Security Network Agency and Amotekun Corps will be passed today. The executive arm ratified the bill yesterday and transmitted the draft to the House of Assembly. Chief Press Secretary to the Governor Yinka Oyebode said the bill for the creation of Amotekun Corps was given approval after extensive deliberation by the EXCO. Oyebode said in a statement: “This evening, the Executive Council of Ekiti State met and carefully considered the bill for the creation of Ekiti State Security Network Agency after extensive deliberation. “The Council adopted the security outfit sequel to the earlier approval by the Attorneys-General and Commissioners of Justice of the six Southwest states. “So, the bill will be transmitted early tomorrow (Thursday) to the House of Assembly to give legal backing to the Ekiti State Security Network Agency otherwise called Amotekun Corps.” Speaking in a telephone chat with our reporter, Afuye who said though it has not official received the bill but the house will receive, deliberate and pass the bill on Thursday (today) for onward transmission for governor’s assent. He noted that the Ekiti State Security Network bill when enacted, would stem the tide of kidnapping, banditry, armed robbery and other manifestation of criminalities that have continued to constitute hindrances to people’s normal social and economic life. The Development Agenda for Western Nigeria (DAWN) Commission, last July, came up with the idea of a regional security network, codenamed: Amotekun. It was inaugurated on January 9 in Ibadan. But the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) Abubakar Malami (SAN) declared it illegal, saying the constitution makes no room for a regional security organisation. The development forced the states to seek legal backing through legislation by their Houses of Assembly. The six governors plan to simultaneously sign of the bills into law tomorrow.