 Kwara State Government yesterday expressed its readiness to assist the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to achieve its mandate. Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice Jawondo Salman, who spoke when he led a delegation of the Ministry of Justice on a visit to the Ilorin zonal office of the commission, hailed EFCC for the huge recovery of money for the state government. The commissioner said:  “I think the EFCC is wonderful. Let me appreciate you on behalf of the state government for the money and properties you have recovered. We have seen your achievements and they are commendable.”It is important that we are on the same page with the EFCC. We must relate as colleagues. I thought we should have this gathering, we will cooperate with you to achieve your mandate. I want the EFCC to feel at home because we are going to make your job easier.”EFCC head in the zone, Mr. Isyaku Sharu, thanked the delegation, saying the commission would continue to fight corruption in its efforts to sanitise the system. ”We must come together to salvage the system. This has been the mandate of the commission. This country belongs to all of us.”We told Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRasaq during the last Nigerian youth walk against corruption that we have recovered N200 million for the state government. As it is today, we have additional N20 million, making it the total sum of N220 million ready for collection,” he said.Sharu added: “We also have not less than seven properties and some posh cars which have been finally forfeited to the Federal Government. They were recovered from politicians and civil servants.” The state government has not approved any new tax for commercial motorcyclists, Commissioner for Communication Alhaji Murtala Olanrewaju said in a statement in Ilorin yesterday. The statement reads: “The government wishes to clarify that this administration has not approved or imposed any (new) tax on commercial motorcyclists. The information that the government plans to impose road tax should be ignored. “What the administration wants to do is to devise security measures in the interest of everyone and in line with the 2017 recommendations of the National Council on Transportation. The Council had recommended proper registration, licensing, identification and regulation of the operators. Even so, whatever measures Kwara takes will be agreed with the unions of the motorcyclists.” 