The Federal Government has set strategies on how to increase Nigeria’s domestic consumption of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) commonly called cooking gas from 750,000 tons to five million tons by 2023. The Programme Manager, National LPG Expansion Plan, Mr. Dayo Adesina, stated this when he presented a paper titled: “Domestication and utilisation of LPG in Nigeria,” to the Lagos State Government’s Executive and stakeholders in  the industry in Lagos. The Federal Government had just set up the National Gas Expansion Programme Committee to come up with roadmap on how to optimally drive utilisation and monetisation of the nation’s huge gas deposits. Adesina listed several areas of the economy where gas could be effectively used. He said gas can be used in agriculture for powering farm tractors, in transportation as auto gas, in small and medium enterprises (SMEs) through usage in cylinders and stoves, in industries (for welding, food processing, automobile, among others ), in power generation  for (signage, street lights, stadiums, mega cities, hospitals, universities, high schools. According to Adesina, efforts are being made to increase household LPG consumption to 60 million homes, which will push consumption from the current 750,000 tons to 2 million tons by 2021 through increased acceptability and awareness and incentivised schemes. This, he noted, would also achieve 120 million tons of carbon dioxide (CO2) emission reduction. He said: “Also through a revamped textile industry, there will be increase in LPG consumption to 500,000 million tons per annum, which also create about 450,000 direct jobs and reduce emission by 20 per cent. From agro processing industry, one million tons of LPG consumption can be achieved by 2021 through clean mechanised farming, which will translate to 20 per cent reduction in diesel/fuel consumption and reduce CO2 emission of total agro-processing machinery activities by 10 per cent as well as increase organic and efficient farming. “From captive power, another one million tons of LPG consumption can be achieved by generating 1,000 to 2,000 megawatts (Mw) of electricity by 2021, while additional 250,000 MT of LPG consumption can be achieved through tannery by increasing production of hides and skin by 10 per cent, which will reduce cost of power and stimulate market value. “In transport, efforts at switching to gas from diesel/petrol are ongoing. Government is also looking at using LPG in abattoirs. The plan is to increase LPG usage in abattoirs from 10,000 to 250,000 million tons per annum (mtpa). Besides, it will increase hygiene and food safety practices, improved cold storage facilities and contribute to about 10 per cent reduction in CO2 emission.” Adesina also stated that about $750 million worth of infrastructure for LPG transport and retailing are required. Such infrastructure, he said, include about 3000 LPG filling plants, trucks (5,000 bobtails, 5,000 bridgers) and more skids.