 THE Mayor of Brampton, Canada, Mr. Patrick Brown, has called on young Nigerian entrepreneurs to take advantage of business opportunities in Brampton, Ontario, Canada. Brown, who spoke at an interactive session with 300 Nigerian entrepreneurs in Lagos, as part of his tour of the Nigerian business landscape, assured of an enabling environment for willing Nigerian entrepreneurs. He explained that there were huge opportunities in Canada’s cyber security sector, food and beverages industry, vibes and manufacturing sectors. “Brampton wants to be part of the Nigerian success story.  We hope to do business with Nigeria, as there are opportunities for Nigeria to be greater than imagined,” Brown said. The forum, which was packaged by Nigerian commercial real estate firm, Pertinence Group, also had the City Councillor, Brampton, Mrs. Charmaine Williams, in attendance. She noted that Nigeria has a lot of potential business men and women, and urged them to tap into several business openings in Brampton, adding that with determination and doggedness, Nigerian youths could occupy their space and turn things around for the country and the African continent. Williams, who is the first black woman to be elected a Councillor in Brampton, said there were opportunities in education and other key sectors of the economy. “We are in Nigeria to change the narrative of the Nigerian-Canadian business. I urge you all here never to allow anybody to discourage you; follow your vision and dream, follow it with passion,” she advised. The Executive Director and Co-Founder, Pertinence Group, Mr. Sunday Olorunsheyi, who’s firm hosted the Canadian delegation, said his firm’s engagements with the Mayor of Brampton had exposed the business opportunities for young and daring entrepreneurs, hence, the decision bring the delegation to Nigeria with the aim of giving indigenous entrepreneurs the opportunity of a firsthand interaction with the delegation. “Just a month ago, I was in Canada and had meetings with his team, where we explored the various opportunities which the City of Brampton can facilitate for Nigerian youths and entrepreneurs, and I can tell you, they are many. And in line with Pertinence Group’s philosophy as a firm that embodies entrepreneurship through and through, we decided to support young Nigerian entrepreneurs by creating this platform just for them,” Olorunsheyi said. 