By Osagie Otabor, Benin  A former Political Adviser to former Governor Adams Oshiomhole, Mr. Charles Idahosa, has said that it was foolery for some members of the All Progressives Congress(APC) to suspend him from the party. Idahosa, who is a strong supporter of the second term bid of Governor Godwin Obaseki, said his purported removal did not follow due process. Some members of the party in Uhunmwode had said they removed Idahosa for appropriating the party to himself and running it as his privately- owned limited liability company where he is both the Managing Director and Chief Executive. In the communique by Prof. David Osifo, Mr. Samson Osagie , Mr. Samson Otabor, Mr. Garrick Osemwengie, Mr. Washington Osifo and Chief Solomon Edebiri, the APC members said a disciplinary committee would be set up to look into the allegations against Mr. Idahosa and was expected to submit its report within two weeks to the party. They stated that the APC in Uhunmwode was now a shadow of itself as Idahosa failed to provide pragmatic and effective leadership to enhance development in the area. Idahosa was also accused of promoting factionalisation as well as sabotaging genuine efforts by well meaning leaders and members aimed at attracting more people into the party. The party appointed Prof. David Osifo, Mr. Samson Osagie, Chief Solomon Edebiri, Mr. Washington Osifo and Mr. John Jesurobo to provide what they termed acceptable and democratic leadership in the area. Idahosa who spoke at his Benin City residence said Oshiomhole was suspended by his Ward leaders and not a gathering of people in a hotel. He described the meeting as that of the Edo Peoples Movement (EPM) and not the APC. “What was Ize-Iyamu and others doing at a meeting of supposed Uhunmwode people. Is that how to suspend somebody from a party. “Oshiomhole was suspended from his Ward. It is foolery to suspend me by EPM. “The people there are working for the money Oshiomhole is giving them. Is Samson Osagie in APC? Is that Uhunmwode APC? Is Osagie Ize-Iyamu from Uhunmwode? Did you not see the people there? Is Ogiemwonyi Uhunmwode?”; Idahosa quarried.