The immediate past Speaker of the Bayelsa State House of Assembly, Monday Bubuo-Obolo, resigned his position following an agreement he reached with leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) before the November 16, 2019 governorship election; it was learnt at the weekend. It was learnt that Obolo, who emerged speaker replacing Tonye Isenah during the poll in controversial circumstances, occupied the position as a strategy to boost the electoral fortune of the PDP in his Southern Ijaw Local Government Area. It was agreed that in an event the PDP emerged victorious at the poll, Obolo would vacate the position for another lawmaker from Bayelsa East Senatorial District in the interest of balance of power. It was found that Obolo was constrained to vacate the speakership position even if the Supreme Court had not halted the victory of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with its 13th February judgement that returned power to the PDP. The sacked Governor-elect of the APC and the incumbent Governor, Senator Douye Diri, hail from the same Central Senatorial District comprising, Southern Ijaw, Kolokuma-Opokuma and Yenagoa local government areas. While Diri hails from Kolokuma-Opokuma, Lyon is from Southern Ijaw. Following the emergence of Diri as the governor, Obolo obeyed the pre-election agreement to give other senatorial districts a sense of belonging. Already, the Bayelsa West, comprising Sagbama and Ekeremor local government areas, had been accommodated in the balance of power following the emergence of Senator Lawrence Ewrujakpor, who hails from Sagbama, as the incumbent deputy governor. It was gathered that the PDP leaders resolved that the speakership position should be zoned to Brass, which shares Bayelsa East, with Ogbia, former President Goodluck Jonathan’s local government area and Nembe. At the resumed plenary, Bernard Kenebai, representing Sagbama 3 constituency, moved a motion for the election of Abaraham Ngobere, who represents Brass Constituency 3, as Speaker. Micheal Ogbere, Ekeremor Constituency 3, was elected the Deputy Speaker while Mrs. Ebiuwou Koko Obiyai, Yenagoa Constituency 2, was elected as the Chief Whip. Speaking shortly after his resignation, Obolo said his senatorial district was blessed with a governor and he had to allow another senatorial district to produce a speaker to balance the power sharing formula. He said: “In Bayelsa State, we have three senatorial districts, the central, the east and the west; it has been the practice that a governor, the deputy governor and the Speaker come from each of the three senatorial districts. “In this case, I am blessed that my senatorial district is so blessed, the current governor of Bayelsa State is from my senatorial district, it therefore means that the seat of the Speaker will have to shift to another senatorial district. “That is the reason I voluntarily stepped aside as the Speaker of the Bayelsa State House of Assembly for the new Speaker to emerge in order to fulfill the age long power rotation formula in Bayelsa State. “I implore my colleagues to extend the same corporation to whoever that will emerge the new Speaker for the good governance in Bayelsa State,” he said.