 WELCOME to another impactful week! I believe you were blessed by the last teaching. This week, we shall focus on: What is in The Word That Endangers Exploits? We discover from Scriptures that the Bible is the most valuable volume of all times. It is written, In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by him; and without him was not any thing made that was made (John 1:1-3). It is the oldest, yet the most current book. It is also the most ancient, yet the bestseller of all times. It is the most widely quoted book and its principles still rule most of the civilised societies today. Its content touches all aspects of human existence, and that is what makes it the key to our unending turnarounds. The Bible is a living force and there is something unique about it. God’s Word is ever-reliable, ever-dependable, and eternally functional. His integrity backs His Word; therefore, we can count on Him. However, what we do with the Word largely determines our destiny. That means, it is our value for the Word that defines what becomes of our lives. This is because the contents of the Bible are spiritual laws that confer us with dominion in our earthly walk. The light of God’s Word does not only enlighten; it also lightens us (John 1:1, 4, 9).The Word puts us in command of everything, because all things were created by the Word, and everything remains under the command of the Word forever (John1:3). Therefore, having potentials or skills is not a substitute for gaining command over our desired turnarounds. We must have the consciousness that the devil is not as powerful as we think he is; rather, it is our ignorance of the dominion we have over him, through the Word, that makes him torment us. Too many people approach the Bible like a motivational or a religious text, where they draw religious principles. That makes them relegated day in, day out, because they don’t know what it carries. The Bible is the only ‘charm’ that does not lose its potency. The application of God’s Word works any day and at anytime. Also, Jesus is the wisdom and the power of God, and He is the Word of God. Thus, God’s Word is also the wisdom of God; thus, when we eat the Word, which is the Knowledge of truth, there is bound to be a reward because our expectations shall not be cut off (Proverbs 24:13-14). We might not know the efficacy of the Word until we begin to put it to work in faith, delightedly, cheerfully, excitedly, lovingly, passionately, zealously and selflessly. This is because the Bible cannot be re-written. We either connect with what is written or we are disconnected from it. What Then, Is In The Word That Endangers Exploits? In conclusion, most times, what we hear is powerless until we believe it, and what we receive is helpless until we believe it. It is a combination of receiving and believing that empowers our full-scale manifestation. Thus, it is not enough to receive the Word; we must go a little further to believe the Word and then, we dominate our circumstances. However, you must be born again. Are you born again? If you are not, this is an opportunity to do so. Simply say the following prayer: Lord Jesus, I come to You today. I am a sinner. Forgive me of my sins. Cleanse me with Your precious Blood. Today, I accept You as my Lord and personal Saviour. Thank You, Jesus, for saving me! Now, I know I am born again! For further reading, please get my books: Turnaround Power of the Word, The Force of Freedom, Walking in Dominion, Satan Get Lost, Born to Win and Fulfilling your Days. I invite you to fellowship with us at the Faith Tabernacle, Canaanland, Ota, the covenant home of Winners. We have four services on Sundays, holding at 6:00 a.m., 7:50 a.m., 9:40 a.m. and 11:30 a.m. respectively. I know this teaching has blessed you. Write and share your testimony with me through: Faith Tabernacle, Canaanland, Ota, P.M.B. 21688, Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria, or call 01-4548070, 01-4548280, or E-mail: feedback@lfcww.org, Facebook: David Oyedepo Ministries International, Twitter: @DavidOyedepoMin.