By Adeniyi Adewoyin  Fans of Burna Boy have disagreed with him following his recent tweet. The African Giant had taken to tweeter on Wednesday night to declare himself the best artiste after Afro Beat legend, late Fela Kuti. In his tweet, the African Giant noted that nobody paved the way for him in the industry as suggested by many. The tweet however didn’t go well with some of his followers who said although he is having a good time of his career but some artistes paved the way for him so he shouldn’t consider himself the best to come out of Nigeria. “NOBODY paved shit for me. Everybody dey find them own. I bin Out here, if you knew the way they made us look weak by begging and paying the western world to like us you will see that no table was set and I’m the one that brought you the Respect you currently enjoy”, Burna tweeted. “FACT! I always knew I was and I am THE BEST. Everyone you think is the best knows I’m best since Fela Kuti. But @timayatimaya told me something a long time ago that made me not care about being the best. “The World can do without the Best” the world will still spin regardless”.  His followers were quick to counter his claim saying the likes of 2baba, D’banj, Wizkid and Davido paved the way for him. “I respect Burna and love his music but saying nobody paved way for him disrespectful to the likes of 2face, Psquare, D’banj (Mo’hits crew) and all other musicians especially Wizkid and Davido that had worked tirelessly to put not just Nigerian But Africa music where it is today”, a fan replied Burna’s tweet. “I wonder what would have happened if you won the Grammy.. Pride comes before a fall burna, you’re good but someone’s way ahead of you and he’s not even braghing” another fan tweeted. “You claim that you fought for the respect we’re getting now. Ask yourself who called out Bet awards for not giving Africans their award on stage, the same award your mom received for you… Dami I say be Humble! No be you be first person, people senior you! “Burna has always been this arrogant. I knew he wouldn’t win the Grammy’s too…what a gift “You just have to respect Wizkid. He respects&supports pple genuinely. When MTV compared him to dbanj he was against it,spoke against BET giving African artistes awards at d back stage.He gives his props to d OGs&never leaves d likes of Davido,Olamide,Burna&new artistes unmentioned”.