THE Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has canvassed for a strong incentive programme that will help to stimulate much-needed private investments in the key sectors of the Nigerian economy. Its Acting Director-General, Ms Mary Uduk, said while the recent Finance Act made some commendable initiatives supportive of the capital market, government should look at the larger picture of major incentives that can stimulate investments in major sectors of the economy. She noted that the government needs to stimulate inflow of capital into key sectors of the economy to realise its goals of economic growth and development. He outlined that special purpose vehicles and innovative investments like infrastructure fund that invest in key infrastructure, venture capital and private equity funds that invests in novel ideas and small and medium enterprises and other companies on the stock market should be encouraged with tax incentives and other concessions. She pointed out that the government can encourage the development of key sectors like mining and agriculture with specific incentives. “The government has through the Finance bill answered some of our prayers. There are others that we thought they would have done like the issue of taxes but they gave us what they thought we should have; we will continue to push for more tax reductions in different areas. We also expected that government will give us some other palliatives for some companies to encourage them to come to the market,” Uduk said. She allayed fears over the volatility in price movements at the stock market noting that there are adequate regulatory mechanisms to protect investors and ensure the market operates in fair and orderly manner. Uduk said the ongoing update of shareholders’ records by stockbroking firms and other operators to include bank verification number (BVN) and other vital details will help to resolve the problem of unclaimed dividends. She urged shareholders that have unclaimed shares and dividends to update their accounts with their stockbroking firms or registrars. “As long as people don’t come to claim their shares it will be difficult to wipe out unclaimed dividends. We have been working with the brokers to get in touch with these people who bought shares in different names to come forward and claim their shares it will be difficult to wipe out those unclaimed dividends. If I have shares and I don’t come forward to claim them either because I had forgotten the names with which I bought them, as long as they are not claimed, it will be difficult to know where to send these dividends to. So they are still the legacy issues that we are trying to combat. But for the new dividends today that are being issued, we don’t have problems there,” Uduk said. She said the Commission may consider recapitalisation of the capital market operators to push the consolidation of the operators into strong firms that will be able to play more actively in the market. “Recapitalisation should happen for the market to be better. If we have say 20 or 50 big firms playing as opposed to what we have now which is 255 the market would be better. We want strong firms, so it’s something that should happen, well capitalized firms as opposed to the situation we have now, Let’s work towards what will make it happen. A number of other sectors are recapitalising; we are asking our CMOs to think about it because sooner than later it would have to happen,” Uduk said. 