TELECOMMUNICATIONS giant, Globacom, has released two television commercials tagged ‘Emoji’ and ‘Smart Home’, in which veteran actresses Sola Sobowale and Patience Ozokwor aka Mama Gee  continue their dramatic rivalry. In the ‘Smart Home’, the duo attend an end-of-the-year party organized by Mama Gee’s daughter. At the party, Sobowale follows her daughter who wants to use the rest room and she is taken aback when the door opened of its own accord and she looks behind the door for who or what opened the door. The scene moves to the living room, where Sobowale goes to relax on the settee and is busy admiring Mama Gee’s picture in a photo frame she picks up. The duo of Mama G, who in company of her daughter, have been monitoring Sobowale from their Smartphone from the outside, turns on the fan and light bulbs to the shock of Sobowale, who is unaware of the technological savvy, just as the rest of the party look on. Meanwhile, at the rest room, the same thing happens, when Mama G’s daughter with her (Mama G’s)  active connivance,  turns on the tap in the wash hand basin remotely to startle Sobowale and her daughter who bolt out of the house, hollering “there is something opening the door, switching the lights!”. Mama Gee then retorts: “Nothing to worry about” and Odunlade rounds off the lines with “na Glo 4G dey run things.” Sobowale later had her revenge when she scared Mama Gee and her daughter as they passed by her car which suddenly started beeping in panic mode with Sobowale dangling the remote control with a victory smile on her face. The TVC celebrates the smart home telecom subscribers can enjoy with the power of the Glo 4G. In the ‘Emoji’ commercial, the various emotions of netizens whilst responding to issues re captured. It begins with the protagonist, a female, receiving a notification on her smartphone that “the party is banging”. The notification galvanises her into action as she jumps on a motor bike visibly excited to join the fun. In a sharp contrast, the elderly business man, the protagonist, was discussing with before receiving the notification, was agitated and shouted “Na wa o!” in frustration as he repeatedly hits his knee on literally getting a red card through a bad telecommunication experience. The clip morphs into a football field where a player angrily stormed out of the field, kicking off one of her boots in the process. Meanwhile, subscribers of Globacom are exchanging hi-fives while having a ball on the network. 