The Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) has launched a national intelligence gathering system to track all tax evaders and defaulters. According to the FIRS, the system will gather data with a view to bringing tax evaders and defaulters to book and make them pay their fair share of taxes to the country. A statement by Abdullahi Ismaila Ahmad, Director, Communications and Liaison Department of the FIRS said the Executive Chairman, Mr. Muhammad Nami, made this disclosure on Wednesday in Abuja during an inter-agency collaborative visit to the Chairman, Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), Prof. Bolaji Owansanoye. Nami said that the Service is restructuring and revamping its system to enable it meet and surpass its 2020 revenue target. According to Nami: “The intelligence gathering system is information and communication technology (ICT)-based and is being implemented in close collaboration with the ICPC and other anti-corruption agencies as well as financial institutions to tackle economy-based crimes, including money laundering.” Nami said the FIRS is improving it’s “collaboration with the ICPC to track tax fraud and block all revenue leakages to ensure that we raise the revenue for the government of Nigeria to fund its budget. We need the data and intelligence which you have to help us track tax evaders and bring them into the tax net”. Responding, Owasanoye said the ICPC was open to share data with the FIRS to track tax evaders, defaulters and tackle illicit financial flow in Nigeria to raise the revenue profile of the government. His words: “The collaboration between the FIRS and the ICPC is very important to Nigeria. One of the cardinal objectives of this Board of the ICPC is to widen the tax net. When we come across any company that is not tax compliant, we refer such companies to the FIRS. “We have referred over 500 companies to FIRS. We want them to be captured in the tax net so that they continue to pay their taxes.” Nami stated that the FIRS Board had approved several reform projects, which the Management of FIRS tabled before it, noting that repositioning the Service is being anchored on four cardinal pillars, namely, “rebuilding FIRS’ institutional framework, robust collaboration with stakeholders, building a customer (Taxpayer)-centric and data-centric institution.” 