Banana has many amazing health benefits, which include the following: Lower Blood Pressure Research conducted at the Hypertension Institute, USA states that potassium plays a key role in managing healthy blood pressure levels. As bananas are a rich source of potassium, they help to reduce blood pressure. Potassium helps in relieving the tension in arteries and veins, so blood can flow smoothly through the body and oxygenate various organs to increase their function.  Provides relief from constipation Bananas contain significant amounts of dietary fiber and therefore help in smooth bowel movements. The roughage soothes the excretion process and relieves a person from constipation. Bananas also help in treating other stomach-related disorders.  Helps manage diabetes Pectin in bananas is said to be a nutrient that aids in improving glucose tolerance in diabetics. A banana provides about 3 grams of dietary fiber, which is beneficial for both type-1 and type-2 diabetics, as per a study published in 2014. Preserves memory and boosts mood According to a study conducted in 2015, the amino acid tryptophan and antioxidants like dopamine, in bananas, play a vital role in boosting mood and preserving memory. Magnesium helps to relax muscles and vitamin B6 helps you sleep well.  Gives relief from symptoms of anemia Bananas contain high iron content and, therefore, they aid in treating anemia since iron is an essential part of red blood cells. Bananas also have a significant content of copper, which is an important element in the creation of red blood cells. By increasing your red blood cell count, not only do you prevent anemia, but you can also increase circulation to all parts of the body, thereby oxygenating them and optimizing their functionality.  Weight Loss Bananas are useful for weight loss as one banana has approximately only 90 calories. They contain a lot of fiber as well and are easy to digest. Furthermore, they do not contain any fats. Therefore, an overweight person does not have to eat too much if their diet contains bananas because they are very filling. The roughage will also not make the person feel hungry by inhibiting the release of the hunger hormone, ghrelin. Strengthens Bones The presence of fructooligosaccharide, a prebiotic, is a beneficial bacteria in our digestive tract that boosts the intake of minerals and nutrients by the body. Bananas are also linked to increased absorption of calcium. Calcium is the most important element in the production and regrowth of bone matter in the body. It reduces our chances of getting affected by osteoporosis and natural weakness. Anti-inflammatory properties Collective research at the Department of Pharmacy, Aston University, Birmingham, UK and School of Health and Sports Science, The University of North London, UK, suggests that the compounds inside bananas are anti-inflammatory in nature, meaning that they can reduce swelling, inflammation, and irritation from conditions like arthritis and gout. Improves vision Bananas, like many other fruits, are packed with antioxidants and carotenoids, as well as a healthy mix of minerals that can seriously boost the health of your eyes. Macular degeneration, cataracts, night blindness, and glaucoma have all been shown to decrease with normal intake of bananas and other similar fruits. Gives relief from piles (Hemorrhoids) Bananas have been used as a natural remedy for piles as the high fiber content makes it easy to pass stools. The laxative effect prevents any kind of strain, thus providing relief and curing hemorrhoids. Anti-ulcerogenic Properties Bananas have been used as an antacid food to soothe upset stomachs as they can also suppress acid secretion. The protease inhibitors in bananas eliminate the harmful bacteria that have been linked to the development of stomach ulcers.  Prevents kidney disorders A 2005 study suggests that potassium and various antioxidants in bananas help ease the strain on kidneys and encourage urination. This can help keep toxins from accumulating in the body.  Relieves menstrual problems Traditional medicinal applications of banana included its use as a menstruation aid. Cooked banana flowers help in providing relief from painful and excessive bleeding during the menstrual cycle and can relieve other menstrual distress too.  Uses of Banana For a more balanced diet, you can have the fruit of banana in any of the following ways: Source: organicfacts.net