 THE Lagos agricultural produce market is worth N360 billion annually, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has said. Speaking on Sunday at the launch of the maiden edition of the Eko-City Farmers’ Market in Lagos, the governor said that the market was full of opportunities, as over one billion Naira worth of transactions took place on a daily basis across the value chain in the state. Represented by Deputy Governor Obafemi Hamzat, Sanwo-Olu noted that agriculture remained one of the main sectors through which his administration planned to achieve the objective of making Lagos a 21st Century Economy. He said the goal in this regard is to ensure food security for the over 22 million Lagosians. Sanwo-Olu said the government is committed to harnessing its comparative and competitive advantage in agriculture to grow gross domestic product (GDP), support the establishment of and growth of small scale industries in the value chain as well as provide employment for teeming youths and women. He described the Eko-City Farmers’ Market as an exceptional initiative aimed at providing a conducive, safe and well-structured environment where farmers can sell their produce to consumers at farm gate prices. The governor said the Eko-City Farmers’ Market initiative is designed as a monthly market to be hosted on the last Sunday of every month, to create an inclusive platform that will cater for the diverse needs of people and ensure food safety as well as traceability that meet international market standards. He stressed that the government has begun to tap into the large opportunities and potentials in the agricultural sector, especially as it plans to ensure food security and availability for residents as well as increase its self- sufficiency in food production from 18 per cent to 40 per cent by 2025. “To effectively tap into the large opportunities and potentials in the agricultural sector, there is need for food safety and traceability that meet international market standard. Through this initiative, we will ensure that our Agricultural Produce Markets are managed in conformity with best global standards and practices and also provide a platform for our farmers both within the state and from the entire Southwest region to display their products and curtail huge post-harvest losses being experienced at present,” Sanwo-Olu said. The governor noted that the Agricultural Produce Market is strategic and full of opportunities where over a billion Naira worth of transactions take place on a daily basis across the value chains in Lagos. He said through the Eko-City Farmers’ Market initiative, the government will ensure that all Agricultural Produce Markets are managed in conformity with best global standards and practices, while simultaneously providing a platform for farmers within the state and from the entire Southwest to display their products and curtail huge post-harvest losses being experienced.  