By Jane Chijioke  The Emergency Response Africa (ERA), a healthtech firm that is transforming emergency medical response in Africa by integrating training, technology and transportation, has begun a one-month training for medical and non-medical people on how to handle emergencies. This, ERA stated, would help in building a workforce of paramedics in various communities in the country. The training would equip participants with the right knowledge and skills to be emergency responders on various health emergency cases such as heart attack, diabetic emergencies, accidents, stroke, fainting, pregnancy labour emergencies, among others. Speaking at the training in Ikeja, Lagos, the Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder of ERA, Folake Owodunni, explained that emergency care delivery had remained a challenge, resulting in avoidable loss of lives as many do not have the right skills to address such situations. Owodunni, who has experienced how functional emergency care delivery works in more developed countries, said she decided to include  non-healthcare personnel in the training because the healthcare system in Nigeria is not flexible enough to accommodate people in different professional backgrounds who can  deliver effectively if well trained. “We know of models outside Nigeria where people who are from any background are able to be trained to be emergency responders. In Nigeria, we tend to have approach to healthcare that means a person must be a nurse or doctor. That is really not the case. Outside, paramedics are the people that deliver emergency care and we are trying to build the first step towards having large paramedic workforce. “I have also experienced a good system abroad and I see that there is an opportunity for us to do things a little different but better. The emergency services system that does exist now in Nigeria; we see it as not fast, efficient and cost effective as it could be. So we are hoping to introduce technology to help achieve that. We want to change the way we provide emergency services in Nigeria and across Africa.  Our goal is to deliver emergency care at scenes in as little as three minutes and be able to ensure that they could get to the right hospital for the emergency,” she said. She noted that for the pilot phase, which will run through the month, participants would respond to simulated emergency cases as part of the training process. Subsequent trainings would also hold later in the year and emergency service systems would be established in various communities that would  address life emergency cases. The Chief Technology Officer of ERA, Maame Afriyie Poky, said infusing technology in the service delivery would enable responders navigate scenes of emergencies  in the best possible ways. She added that the project would benefit communities as they would have quick response to cases of emergency. “We realised that every year, over 200,000 people in developing countries die from common emergencies cases. These are cases that could have been easily handled if someone was on sight to help. Personally, I lost my grandmother to such situation. So the project is part of steps to cut down the number of lives lost from cases that could have been easily handled,” he said. Commending the initiative, one of the participants, Olayinka  Olaiyadete, noted that rather than Nigerians  taking pictures and posting on social media platforms at emergency scenes, such paramedic skills  would help to respond  to such emergency situations.