The Sultan of Sokoto, His Eminence, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar lll, has said that Nigeria will win the fight against insurgency despite the current situation. Abubakar III, who expressed displeasure over the killings and bloodshed in the country lamented that it has gotten to a stage where the rich is avoiding the poor. He condemned the act, urging everyone to live in peace and be their brother’s keeper. Sultan Abubakar Ill is also the head of Jama’atu Nasril Islam (Society for the Support of Islam, JNI), and President-General of the Nigerian National Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA). He gave the assurance in Abuja at the 5th International Conference on Love and Tolerance: “countering violent extremism for peaceful coexistence” held at the African First Ladies Peace Mission Conference Hall (IPCR Hall). The Sultan who was represented by the Emir of Jiwa, His Royal Highness (HRH), Dr. Idris Musa said it has also been observed that most Nigerians do not love each other. He called for prayers for both Muslims and Christian faithful for God to show mercy and restore peace and progress. His words: “We can win the fight against insurgency. Everyone is afraid of each other. I am sure we are going to win the war. Today, it has reached where a senior citizen is running away from the common man, because, he is thinking that he would lose his life, why? “The security challenges is our problem. The Holy Qu’ran is a message to mankinds. The Hoy bible is a message to mankind. If we cannot listen to what the bible and Koran have thoughts us and we continue in our bad ways, what do we expect. It is part of the punishment we are receiving based on our sins. If we can stop committing sin and abide by God’s words, things will change. “I thank the UFUK Foundation for trying to unite the world to become one and love each other. Today, we are in a situation that most of us do not love each other. This is wrong, we are created in the same way and we are brothers, no matter the situation and religion. “We are appealing to everyone to live together and be our brother’s keeper and live in harmony. We should not create problems for each other”. President of UFUK Dialogue, Kamil Kemanci said the UfUK Dialogue serves to stand by societal peace, love, respect and compassion in support of human dignity and the greater good by striving to preserve the common values of humanity: values such as respect, tolerance, peace and mutual understanding. Kemanci said in dialogue it is possible to transform conflict into cooperation adding that the most important factor in the creation and promotion of a sustainable peace is the realization of good governance, while promoting justice through increased transparency, accountability and rule of law and strengthening of democracy.