Juliana Agbo, Abuja Association of Cashew Farmers, Aggregators and Processors of Nigeria (ACFAP) have alleged that neighbouring countries have been sabotaging Nigeria’s cashew export and taking credit for cashew produced in the country. While alleging that countries like Ghana, Cote d’Ivoire claim of producing about 750,000metric tone of Cashew, they explained that cashew from Nigeria is shipped to other countries without clean certificate of inspection. Speaking at a media briefing in Abuja, ACFAP President Engr Unekwuojo Edime alleged that some neighboring countries can’t produce as much as they claim but they get the cashew value more than Nigeria. According to him, “Some people ship our cashew to other countries, standardize them and sell the cashew as being of their own origin instead of Nigeria, thereby taking credit of Nigerian cashew”. Speaking further, he said there are people in the industry with serious funds, wherein rather than helping to grow the sector they are devaluing the industry for their own gain, these people meddle 8n the affairs of the cashew industry and destroying the market. “What the cabals does is that they are the ones that determine price for the cashew and the farmer on the other hand cannot reject it”, he said. But for the year 2020, TAK Agro is working with them to ensure that all their crops are been standardized and of best quality such that it cannot be rejected at the international market. He however appealed for the inclusion of Cashew in the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Anchor Borrowers Program (ABP). Adding that the association would also want to partner The Nigeria Incentive-Based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL), the National Agricultural Insurance Corporation (NAIC) towards rehabilitation of existing plantation and expansion of hectare. “As an Association, we are promoting Cashew Value Chain development with serious emphasis on value addition, wealth and job creation as a key driver for socio-economic advancement and livelihood support in Nigeria”, he said.