 Governor Dapo Abiodun on Tuesday lamented the death of the Remo Stars Footballer, Kazeem Tiyamiyu, popularly called Kaka, saying it is painful to him and the good people of Ogun State. Abiodun who spoke at the family residence of the late Soccer Star in Sagamu when he paid a condolence visit to the parents, described Kazeem as a “rising star who was cut short in his prime.” The Governor was accompanied in the condolence visit by the Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG), in charge of Criminal Investigations Department at the Force, Mr Peter Ogunyonwo, the Commissioner of Police in Ogun State, Kenneth Ebrimson and the State Director of state security service, Mr David Tuska. He told the grieving parents of late Kazeem that the suspected culprits have been apprehended and would be made to face the full wrath of the law to serve as deterrence to others. “The incident caused a lot a lot of pain to us and that is why we are here to condole with you. God allows this incident for a reason. I want to assure you that since it happened, we have left no stone unturned. We are closely monitoring the situation,” he said. He appealed to the people of Sagamu, members and fans of the Remo Stars Football Club who besieged the deceased family’s home to be law abiding and not give opportunity to criminals to perpetuate their acts in the town, pledging to use every instrument of government available to unearth the circumstances of the killing and crisis that engulfed the town on Monday. The Governor reminded them that the future of the State would be secured when people eschewed violence and go about their businesses in a lawful manner. “We will use every means possible not only to ensure that justice is served, but that it is seen to have been served. We’ll work to ensure that this will be the last of such avoidable deaths in the hands of security officers in our state,” he vowed. “Let us continue to preach peace. Let’s be law abiding and discourage those that want to take advantage of the situation to commit crimes,” he said. Abiodun who attributed the criminal activities in the town to its size, population and being a border town, added that the State government has distributed more security logistics to law enforcement agents, while additional police division had been established in the town. While commiserating with the parents of the deceased over the loss of a promising star in his prime, the Governor assured that he would not die in vain, as government would investigate and get to the root of the matter.