 Saudi Arabia-based Super Eagles captain, Ahmed Musa, has been giving himself and his resources to mankind all his life.  He has been a man of compassion and charity even before he became a wealthy football super star. Born and raised in Jos as one of five children, Musa was a ‘boy on the street’ and his skills were honed on the street of the ‘Tin City’, where he was spotted by local scouts who brought him to a local football academy, Aminchi. “Musa is one of the few Nigerians that believe you don’t have to be a billionaire to be able to help whoever is in need,” USA-based sport journalist Olusola Alao who saw Musa from his humble days told The Nation.  “The Jos-born player showed he is a cheerful giver right from his days with JUTH FC when he would give out almost his salary and allowances to fans that come to the team’s training, camp and hotels. “He would put aside a portion of his salary and bonus then in JUTH for the needy, and he was so discreet that only his close friends and colleagues, who helped in disbursement of the monies, knew about it.” As a super star, the Al Nassr striker has stepped up his philanthropic work by paying some students school fees and helping to keep their families together. In 2019, during Super Eagles friendly match in Asaba- Delta State, Musa helped a woman and her little kid in search of a cleaner job with a gift of 250,000. In the same Asaba, Musa lifted the Nigeria U-23 team with cash donation of N4milion to encourage them qualify for the CAF U-23 Cup of Nations. In November last year, Musa announced a one billion naira ($2.759 million) scholarship for 100 students of Skyline University in Kano. He also donated over 3,000 bags of rice and monies to a Deaf and Dumb School in Kano. “It’s just a way of contributing my quota to help the society, to help many youths become what they wish to become in life as long as they can dream it,” he said. The scholarship covers N2.5 million school fees per student. He believes education is a way of empowering people and has donated desks and chairs to public schools in Jos while sending funds to feed prisoners and orphanages. At Ramadan period, it is his custom to dole out cash and food items for people in need. He has a sports complex in GRA Kano which provides jobs for people in the city and allows aspiring athletes and footballers to train with modern facilities. Musa said giving back to his constituency was borne out of the happy times and encouragement he has received from them: “The people back home have been so nice to me, so I want to give something back to them. When I return home in the future I can train with the children and feel very happy.” Though his father passed away when he was a teenager, he believed he was sustained by ‘a hand from above’ and should lend a hand to others too. Quite happy with his achievement, Musa believed that winning the FIFA World Cup is still a dream he must achieve. “I’ve been to the Nations Cup coming out with gold and a bronze. I like wining and I’m fulfilled that I have won AFCON (in 2013 in the late coach Stephen Keshi squad). “The 2019 AFCON was not easy but after the victory against South Africa, I was happy because we brought smiles to the faces of many Nigerians. It’s obvious because all the people were happy that we made it to the semi-finals. “It was not an easy game; South Africa played very good football but we held on to win the match. We were patient, we continued to push and the goal came at the end, at the most important time. We usually reminded ourselves of the objective in Egypt was to win the trophy, and we left with a bronze, which we celebrated warmly. “Before 2013, when we won, we had not won it for more than a decade. After that, we failed to qualify; but now we won bronze. It was not an easy feat and that made us happy. “Most importantly the coach is bringing up new players. Samuel Chukwueze has good future in the Super Eagles. He had a great game against South Africa and he and other young players are going to make the Super Eagles stronger, they are going to take over from some of us the older players when we retire. It’s good they are stepping up now. “I have always dreamt of winning the AFCON and thank God I won it in 2013 and got a bronze last year. Also I want to win the World Cup (Insha Allah) when I go to the next World Cup in Qatar if I’m still strong,” he said. Al Nassr The Saudi Arabia journey, Musa agreed, has been a success for him and this is marked with league titles that he has helped the team garner since joining them in 2018. So far he has played 31 matches and scored seven times. Before Musa joined the team, Al Nassr had not won the league after 2015. His coming had stabilised the team to come back to winning ways and taking the title again in the 2018/2019 season. The Nigeria international signed for the Riyadh-based club on the back of a strong showing at the 2018 World Cup in Russia, where he found the net twice against Iceland to become the first Nigerian international to score in two different World Cups. Musa said about the move: “The Saudi Professional League (SPL) is one of the hardest leagues. People may look at it as very easy, but I don’t think so. Many people think the league is easy, but when you play here you know it’s not that easy. “The fans here are crazy about football; they’re not the same as Europeans. When I first came here, it was difficult for me because of how much the fans love football – they don’t want to lose. Over here, fans are always crazy when you lose a game. One of the best moments here is whenever I go out [and] everyone wants to take a picture with you. I give the Saudi fans credit for this.” Within a year, Musa has helped the team transform into a league winner and himself into a fan favourite having scored seven times and registering the same number of assists as Nassr cruised to the title. “I joined them in August of 2018 and they offered me a permanent deal. We had a rough time at the beginning of the league but we were able to come back to stabilise by winning important matches. Injuries did not help too but the turning point came when we defeated arch rival Al Hilal also from Riyadh 2-1. That victory gave us back the winning mentality and boosted our morale and from then on we were not afraid of any team. We got other important victories which took us to the apex of the league table. Life in Saudi Musa is enjoying life in Saudi which he noted boasts of many Nigerians. “It was not difficult settling down here (Saudi Arabia) because of the presence of many Nigerians. From where I come from the northern part of the Nigeria, even while I was growing up, Saudi is not strange to me. We have many our people here and we come together whenever we can. It is a fine place to live and raise your kids and I don’t regret making that move. I’m loved here and that makes me happy too. I hope to see my contract through. There are also many Nigerian players here in both divisions and we get together sometimes to talk about home. There is Reuben Gabriel, Ali Abubakar, Paul Onobi, Christian Pyagbara and Gege Soriola who joined from South Africa. We now have some four Nigerian players playing in the Saudi Professional League. I would love for more Nigerian players to come and play here,” he added. Super Eagles Rising to captain the Super Eagles is not a fluke as Musa has played for the Nigeria senior team since 2010. With 91 caps, he’s close to joining Joseph Yobo in the exclusive 100 caps club. He has also scored 15 goals and the four World Cup goals for Nigeria remain the highest by any Nigerian player. He added: “We have a solid team and everyone in the team is family. We play for each other and the young players coming in have adapted quickly to the family spirit in the team. The coach is building a great team with the right spirit and that is what is going for us. “Since I started my career with the national team, I’ve always broken records. No player has ever scored two goals at a World Cup for Nigeria. I am now the highest Nigerian scorer at the World Cup. “I think with the years I have remaining with the national team I can achieve more records,” remarked the fleet-footed striker.