Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu at the weekend restated his resolve to bequeath quality life to the physically-challenged and incorporate their interest in his programmes and policies. He spoke when he celebrated the Valentine’s Day with the Centre for Disabilities Issues (CDI). The event was held at Idapo Mimo Cherubim and Seraphim Church, Ebute- Metta, Lagos and was organised by CDI, in conjunction with Idapo Mimo Cherubim and Seraphim Church and the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Alagomeji Parish, Lagos. The governor, represented by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Youths and Social Development, Mrs. Yewande Falugba, hailed the Coordinator, CDI, Comrade Kehinde Oshilaja and his team for hosting the annual Valentine love feast. She said the feast would lift the spirit of persons living with disabilities, especially as a result of the expression of love and care that the occasion signified. Falugba said that the government had always prioritised the well-being and development of the people living with disabilities as evident in the programmes and laws established to protect their rights. Comrade Oshilaja thanked the state government for its commitment to the plight of the people living with disabilities, especially for signing the state disability laws 10 years before the Federal Government signed it. She said programmes have been lined up for their development, adding that a lot is being done to improve on the existing disability laws to meet up with the current trends. Falugba noted that efforts would be geared towards improving on the ease of movement. She advised the CDI to register with the Lagos State Office for Disability Affairs (LASODA), an agency established by law to champion the cause of people living with disabilities. Falugba said if this is done, it will give the centre the opportunity to enjoy the privileges the government will be creating from time to time. Comrade Oshilaja thanked the state government for its commitment to the plight of the people living with disabilities, especially for signing the state disability laws 10 years before the Federal Government signed it. He lamented that people living with disabilities were getting frustrated on a daily basis, noting that the government should address this and prioritise their welfare. Awards were given to groups and personalities that had supported the CDI in the past and at present.The guest preacher at the event, Prophet Shola Babafemi of the Idapo Mimo Cherubim and Seraphim Church, enjoined Nigerians to love one another as commanded by God, irrespective of the person’s status, including people living with disabilities “because all of us were born equally and can as well reason constructively.” The state representative of the people living with disabilities, Israel Akiode, praised the CDI and advised people living with disabilities to see that there is ability in disability.