 DISTILLERS and Blenders Association of Nigeria (DIBAN), a sub sectoral group of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria, MAN, has stated it has already spent a whooping N170 million in sensitising the public on the dangers of underage involved with taking of alcohol. The Chairman of DIBAN, Engr. Patrick Anegbe dropped this hint during the kick stating of the 2nd phase of the advocacy campaign against irresponsible and underage drinking in Lagos over the weekend. Anegbe said, “I am pleased to announce that DIBAN today kicks off the second phase of our advocacy campaign, a continuation of our consumer education programme to which we have committed   a total sum of N170 million. “This is the second phase of our advocacy campaign to combat drinking by minors and the under-aged as well as advocate for responsible drinking in people above 18 years. “In 2019, our deep value for corporate social responsibility necessitated we respond with a strong advocacy platform to drive responsible drinking and zero alcohol consumption for minors and the underaged.  This campaign has been broken into three phases for smooth execution and the evaluation of our set objectives.” He noted that N90 million was spent on the 1st phase, which generated interest and drew people’s consciousness to the campaign. Also speaking, the DG of NADAC, Prof Mojisola Adeyeye, who was represented by Sheriff Olagunju, pointed out that the NAFDAC ACT (LFN N1 2004) empowers the Agency amongst other functions to regulate and control the importation, exportation, manufacture, advertisement, distribution, sale and use of foods, drugs cosmetics, medical devices, bottle water and chemicals. She noted that DIBAN is doing great in its CSR by collaboration with the government and NAFDAC in discouraging underage drinking and irresponsible consumption. “Through production and insertion of TV jingles in NAFDAC and your health program, sensitisation bill boards across the major cities of Nigeria and other financial commitment is noted and worthy of commendation. “The agency has noted various campaign themes such as “Drink Moderately,” “Health is wealth,” “Enjoy life to the fullest,” and “Don’t mix” to sensitise consumers about the dangers of excessive alcohol consumption and advocating moderation,” the DG pointed out. 