Sister Okeowo, I write to appreciate you for the spirit-led content of your ‘Girls Club’ column. It is a timely compass to many young girls that are exposed to the dangerous wave of ungodliness in our society enveloped with the charade called ‘news’ or information unleashed by the social media on impressionable minds. Please keep it up! The almighty God will continue to inspire you as you write. You are God-send. Rev. C. C. Ekeoma, Foursquare Gospel Church, Onitsha Dear Madam, Thanks so much for the good work you are doing. However, I have a question for you. Are you now saying that most girls that are not sexually-pure “useless their lives” with men? From your writing, every girl that keeps her body will be successful. Please it does not work like that. I have seen a girl who got married as a virgin but never had a child while harlots who abort countless times are having babies. The African continent is so poor that many girls that are morally-upright and holy are suffering. So, please it doesn’t work like that. Chichi. My darling, precious, glorious, dignified, world-famous and heavenly celebrated Nigerian sisters, Let the truth be told an average Nigerian girl/lady is unfortunately into prostitution with pleasure or under duress! I know a lot of you would have remained virgins and be sexually pure but for your financial incapacity and uncountable overtures from men. The world has gone so bad that an average man thinks every female lady can be bought with money so they slam their sexual overtures in your faces and are so quick to move on to another lady if you refuse because quite frankly most young ladies today would gladly exchange their bodies for money/favour.  What a destructive transaction! What a dreadful waste! What a shameful depraved world! Sadly, even so many mothers out there are grooming their teenage girls for rich men that would take care of them. Haa….. Girls…girls…girls….Did you even know every sexual intercourse carries a heavy spiritual significance and the very first is even weightier and could practically determine how a life would go. It not only involves some blood-shed through the piercing of the hymen (it establishes a covenant), it opens up the gate of your life- your entire existence in the supernatural. Now, who are you opening it up to? Why are you opening it? For money? Money and enormous wealth of which you are a harbinger? ANY GIRL WHO BREAKS HER VIRGINITY FOR MONEY/FAVOUR SIGNS AWAY HER BIRTHRIGHT/GOODNESS TO THE DEVIL AND BECOMES HIS SLAVE! Why do you think prostitutes are stuck to their trade? And to think the spiritual transaction is so humongous such that some girls have given away the core part of their spirituality which could announce them in the world and enable them buy aircrafts before age 40 for a few hundreds of thousand or even less than a hundred thousand!  Some have foolishly sold their future and all God has deposited in them to make them prosper in life unknowingly on the altar of sex! Do you think most of these rich and elderly men would go for just any one? Do you think they are Santas?  80% of the world is highly-occultic and a good number of men lavishing gifts on young ladies are reaping bountifully and emptying these ladies spiritually! This is a very serious matter and not a fable! Little do you know what the devil is up to and guess what, the devil hates to release whatever he’s stolen from you unless you put up a fight which could take so many years or snuff life out of you! Why go through that? How would you live a good life if you become emptied of the treasure you need to coast through life because of your temporary discomfort? Hmm…if only you knew your spiritual worth! There’s so much more coming your way! May you not fall into ruin, may your stars not be emptied and may you not beg to eat in future in Jesus name! I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO Instagram @ Okeowo Temilolu.