As digital advertising continues to gain traction in the marketing space, practitioners in the industry have been called upon to develop strategies to meet the demands of the era to remain profitable, JANE CHIJIOKE reports  Marketing is an indispensable part of any business operation. This is the reason  brand owners are faced with the dilemma of the appropriate question of what marketing channel would drive traffic and sales to their business. As consumers remain the end goal, they are on edge to know how best to speak the language and satisfy their consumers. The evolution and rapid adoption of internet technology, no doubt, has impacted on consumers buying behaviour. The ubiquity of mobile phones has not only afforded consumers easy access to information but has also spurred social media marketing and digital advertising. This form of advertising, experts contend, is fast disrupting the advertising marketing space. For instance, brands desirous of exposure to reach their target audience are fast embracing digital advertising. This is due to its numerous benefits, including but not limited to cost effectiveness, wider clientele reach, feedbacks, measurable results, among others. It has also led to more digital firms sprouting up. According to the Manager, Digital Strategy and Planning, Insight Publicis, Adeola Kayode, advertising budget has gone digital, which is also facilitated by the economic downturn. “The economic projections, competitive market place and lower consumer spending power have forced brands looking to maximise the effectiveness of other advertising budgets. In looking to do this, they tend to move from high-spending media and look to digital media as a way to manage, measure and scale their budgets based on impact. This is where digital agencies tend to benefit,” Kayode said. For advertising agencies, this trend poses a threat to the sustenance of their business. However, strategic planning and innovation to meet up with the demands of the post-digital age is imperative. It was, therefore, instructive when, the President, Association of Advertising Agencies of Nigeria (AAAN), Ikechi Odigbo, admonished practitioners to acquire new business mindset and approaches, which are crucial in a rapidly-evolving business landscape, stating that brands are only seeking partners who are up to date in terms of proffering understanding, thought leadership and solutions to their marketing problems.  In his paper titled: Advertising in the post digital age: the profession, the business and Nigeria’s socio-economic development, which was presented at a recent advertising conference in Abuja, Odigbo submitted that the world is experiencing a shift from broadcast media to the interactive platforms and applications on the internet, where devices and products share data and collaborate to deliver multiple integrated functions and utility. He said the era has enabled brands to have communion with real people, not archetype, target audiences and markets segment have transformed into real individuals, with strong voice and creative verve to contribute online. The AAAN boss noted that the digital age has transferred television advertising to digital platforms such as YouTube, and Instagram advertising taking the place of print advertising and with celebrity endorsement mutating into influencer marketing. He worries that this change is still treated with laxity by practitioners to inculcate innovation, take creative measures to adapt to the digital reality in the business. “We congratulate ourselves a lot for adapting things that have been done before, making minimal changes and feeling like we understand the modern world. However, we cannot force-fit old templates to new expectations, new objectives and expect to be regarded as relevant, strategic and indispensable by the clients.” Notwithstanding, he said the primary takeout from this shift is that advertising has moved from selling monologues to storytelling, triggering  real conversations with the brand community. “Brands have to shift from growing market share to nurturing brand communities. This is a sort of marriage that is helping to enhance loyalty to their offerings by paying attention to people’s passion points. The close communions also create greater scrutiny and vulnerability as negative comments from the brand community can harm the brand in a viral way,”he said. He expressed optimism that while the digital age will soon become a thing of the past, craft, creativity and innovation would continue to create value and relevance in the advertising space. “So, it is time to walk the talk. We need to stop talking about innovation and start embedding it in how we think, how we work, how we manage our processes and projects; how we engage opportunities and clients’ problem. Let’s make innovation a culture,” he added.