The outgoing Chairman of the Peoples Democractic Party (PDP) in Edo State, Chief Dan Orbih spoke with OSAGIE OTABOR on his legacies, the challenges facing the chapter and how it can regain power in the Southsouth state.  You have spent the last 12 years leading the PDP in Edo. What legacy are you leaving behind? It is unusual for a man to start talking about what he has done or what he has achieved when he was in office. That is actually the job for future political analysts and historians to do. I don’t think it is a fair question for me to be talking about what I have been able to do for the years I managed the party. Journalists are in a better position to access what I have done. At the time I took over the leadership of the party, there was instability in the party. At some point, we have people like Uyigue who calls himself the State chairman with the tacit support of the state government. Within a period we were able to put this to rest and bring the members under one umbrella. I came to assume the leadership when we were talking about A group and O group. Ogbemudia and Chief Anenih factions. To the glory of God, with all these people in the state, I was able to put them together. All these leaders have one disagreement with one another. I was able to work with all of them and we were back as one united party.  It has been so ever since. We have been able to put the party back on a very strong foot. One can say that all is set for the PDP to take back Edo State as things are today. I will recall that the past two general elections, we won in Edo. Jonathan won the state in his presidential election in 2015 and Atiku won in the last presidential election. We also retain two senatorial seats out of three. All is set for us to win back the state. These are no mean achievements. As at today, the National Chairman of APC is from Edo and we have an APC government here. We were able to defeat both of them in the last presidential elections. In these past elections, we were facing a formidable situation with the APC, even thought, the APC was a united force. I believe what we have on ground in Edo is a not exactly a united APC facing us at elections. Whether they are united or divided, this is one state the PDP is ready to take so that we have the entire Southsouth geo-political region under the umbrella of the PDP. The Edo people have not been very happy that we are outside the umbrella. They want to come under the umbrella and we will lead them there so that the entire Southsouth region can be under PDP. How were you able to bring the warring groups in the PDP together? I want to give glory to God who has given one the wisdom to be able to navigate the murky waters of Edo politics and win the confidence of the leaders. I also want to say I have enjoyed a lot of support from the members and leaders of the party in the state. We have been very engaging in taken up issues in the state to the extent that even those who were initially non-committed to the course of the party have reasons to come out fully to support the party. We have been able to attract many people to the party during my tenure. Our approach has attracted more followership to the party more than ever before. Who is your favourite person to get the party’s governorship ticket? Pastor Ize-Iyamu was our candidate in our last election. Pastor, for personal reasons, have left to join the APC. We cannot be talking of me supporting Pastor when he is no longer a member of the PDP. I will support any PDP candidate, any body that is picked by the party as the candidate. I will support the person with everything at my disposal because we are in a very serious situation in Edo. Every serious minded politician must be prepared to take up the challenge to effect a change in the government of Edo. Your party will be facing the APC in September. What will make the situation different? The APC came in with propaganda, promising people all sorts of things. They said there will be no ticketing. Oshiomhole said no to agbero, no to godfather, but everything they told us they are doing the opposite and Edo people are worst for it. We are in a state where the government has not been allowed to settle to serious governance. They are involved in an unending internal crisis, which is avoidable because it is now obvious the problem in Edo APC is between a godfather and a godson, even though the man who today is a godfather told us no to godfatherism. He has since assumed the title of a super godfather. The godson who is the govendor has refused to dance to the dictates of the godfather. That is the root of their problem. Let us assume that is an internal matter between members of the APC. That quarrel is now affecting governance. I challenge you to tell me how many projects you have accompanied the governor to commission. If you name three, I will give you one million naira. We now have a situation where what it takes to assess governance is the number of MOUs or foreign trips by a governor who when the tension gets too much, he embarks on a foreign trip and nothing has come to the state in terms of impacting on development of the state. They have used their internal crisis to bring the vehicle of development to a halt. They have engaged the vehicle on a reverse gear. When you look at the background under which the APC came to power in Edo, the promises, the expectations and what we have now, you will weep for this state. The rains are approaching, residents in Bénin are already developing high blood pressure about the expected havoc that will follow these rains. What is happening at the new Specialist hospital is another interesting development. When Buhari was invited to commission the hospital, Oshiomhole declared that it was a five star hospital. I struggled to believe that it was true. When I read the President was going for medical treatment, I thought he was coming to Bénin. When I took a patient,I saw empty hall. No nurse, no staff. It was an empty hall they deceived the President to come and commission. The APC government claimed they spent billions of naira on that hospital. We came out early to say the entire project was a fraud when you compared what Cross River used to build an ultra modern hospital. The same thing Bauchi spent a lower sum of money to build a well equipped hospital. Here we spent more money and we still cannot enjoy what the government said they were going to provide. Now, there is a big quarrel between the godfather and the godson. The government has come out to set up a Commission of Inquiry to look at the shady deals. APC government in Edo has not done well. Is it the university at Iyamho? I still want  to challenge the Governor to disclose the status of that university. The ownership of that university must be disclosed by Obaseki. We know the importance of education in any society because education is key to future development of any state. We were told from the onset it was going to be built by a PPP arrangement.  Again fingers are pointing at Afri invest as the partner. Edo people are asking how much was the contribution of the company that partner to build the university. We want to know the percentage of their contribution. How are they sharing the revenue generated from the school? You cannot run government like a secret society. When people asked questioned government must give answers to these questions. The bill sent to the House was very clear. I have piles of vouchers Oshiomhole signed few hours to leaving government. It is the non-disclosure of some of these things that are making people believe that whatever quarrel now between godfather and godson maybe beyond political issues. They must speak up and let the people know. What will you say are your achievements? No doubt, in the course of managing the party, we were able to do a few things, which helped to deepen democracy in this state. At some point, Oshiomhole came out to say he wanted to sell Edo House in Lagos. We had privileged information about plans by government to bring in some Chinese partners who will buy the property and some key people in government were going to be partner and turned the complex into a five star hotel. This was going to be a functional five star hotel. We could not see why government was going to sell the property, which is at the heart of Victoria Island in Lagos. Government went further to say al those who are interested in buying the facility should take note that the government will not necessarily sell it to the highest bidder. Why not sell to the highest bidder if government was to raise revenue? It was this issue that motivated me to rally party members to stop the sale of the Edo House. They came out publicly to say they must sell it. Oshiomhole got traditional rulers and organised a town hall meeting where he said he has been mandated to sell it. Oshiomhole has left office and Edo House is still Edo House. We took the matter to court and it is still in court. We now have another government, if they continue to challenge our decision that the property should not be sold. They are given impression they have interest in what was being put together by Oshiomhole. I don’t know why government has not come to say it has stop planned sale of the house then we can pull the case out of court. This government must show enough courage to the people of the state that they are doing things differently from what was done at the time we have Oshiomhole in government. We thank God we fought Oshiomhole to a stand still. I call on Obaseki to take a decision on Edo House so that we can withdraw our case in court and let government put the property into proper use. We cannot be selling everything. The rate Oshiomhole was going about selling property, if I had not stop him from selling Edo House, he would have sold the government house. He sold many Edo government property. If I had not stop him, he would have sold government house. Another episode is the woman Oshiomhole told go and die. I brought out that evil deed. When I came out, government said what the woman did was wrong. I organised a press government and I invited the women. The next thing I heard was that Oshiomhole invited the woman and apologised. My action brought Oshiomhole from his high horse to apologise to the woman. That was one of the high point of my tenure. Outside going out to contest elections, political parties must stand for the people. They must be there for the people. They must help not only to fight for their right but put the government on its toes when they go wrong. That is why when I looked back, I felt fulfilled that I was able to get the Governor to apologise to the  woman. What is the present situation of your party? We don’t normally discuss issues in court. Ours is a democratic party. We comply with court orders and decisions. It may interest you to know that at the time we suspended our congress, we were not officially served the court notice. We complied because it was in the media. I believe the issues are being. looked into by the leadership of the party. I have set up a powerful team with those who went to court and there are discussions going on with all concern. At the time you emerged chairman, leaders liked Anenih, Dr. Ogbemudia were there. Why is it like without them? The country used to have great leaders like Awolowo, Azikiwe. They are no longer there, but the country has been moving on. Those you call now were our founding fathers of our party in Edo State. May God continue to bless them for what they did for our party. We pray that God continue to endowed our party with leaders who will carry on with the same spirit the founding fathers were able to put into the process of building this strong party. What is your next step after March when you leave office? In the real sense, I want to see myself as a committed member of the PDP whether I am chairman or I am out of office. I want to remain a committed member of our party. What that means is that in a few months time we will be campaigning to get a PDP Governor elected in Edo. I will definitely play a role in the campaigns that will lead to a PDP Governor in Edo. That is my immediate next ambition. To see that we elect a PDP Governor in Edo. But, the PDP stronghold in Edo Central appears depleted, as to the APC own all the 24 seats in the Edo Assembly. You are a journalist. You have a responsibility to tell the public the true situation. As at date if somebody asked you how many members do we have in Edo State House of Assembly that are APC members, the truth is that they are 10. APC has only 10 members in the House that has 24 members. By the grace of God, the remaining 14 are going to be PDP members. There is nothing like 4 over 24. It is 10 over 24. In Edo Central, our elected Senator Clifford Ordia and the two House of Representatives members are PDP. I don’t know if there is any APC presence in Edo Central. Are you going to pressure INEC to conduct bye-election in those 14 seats? This is a matter already in court. We have asked INEC to declare our candidates as elected members of the Edo Assembly by applying the doctrine of necessity. This is a new case. There is no history where a Speaker will declare 14 seats vacant as a results of members who were elected to represent their people refused to report duty. Our lawyers are in court and they feel strongly these are our seats. Those who framed our constitution did not envisage a situation where people will refused to go to the House for whatever reason. 