 Students who just secured admission into various higher institutions of learning, often find it a little difficult to blend into the new environment. Having left the comfort of their homes, families and friends, they are confronted with new relationships in form of lecturers and colleagues. In most cases, one discovers that such students and their lecturers don’t usually maintain a supposed cordial relationship wherein the latter is expected to play numerous fatherly roles such as giving the former moral and intellectual support, advice and counsell. In contrast, most lecturers do not consider the abovementioned instances as anything but rather go business-like each time they meet or have contact with their students. In view of the foregoing, it’s very imperative for lecturers to guide their students to achieve their primary purpose in school. Though, student population in higher institutions are annually skyrocketing; nonetheless, that is no excuse for lecturers to allow the students indulge. Guidance/counselling will help students’ moral uprightness; and this, directly or indirectly, will reduce the innumerable social malaises under which the nation is at present embroiled.  Life in tertiary institutions also affords students a certain measure of self-governance, compared to when they were in secondary school. This often gives them the air of freedom that prods into vulnerability and nefarious activities such as cultism, gangsterism, prostitution and the like. Lecturers are, therefore, implored to back up their lectures with ‘morally-themed’ admonitions. This will ultimately rekindle the relationship between them and their students. Inevitably, other societal challenges such as terrorism, cybercrime, kidnapping, robbery, banditry and cultim will be addressed substantially. Likewise, it is also key for lecturers to improve on their mutual understanding with their students, especially in matters relating to their academics. They should behave and act as true loco parentis when dealing with their students. They should teach with passion as this will invariably enhance and encourage those serious among the students. This will further bridge the gaps between the two parties while also enhancing a more symbiotic interaction. The students too should always hold their lecturers in high regard and revere them. Tertiary institutions all over the world have a culture of awarding degrees to their students strictly on ‘learning and character’. When a student graduate with first class or distinction but unfortunately possesses despising attitudes, his or her class of degree will be considered unworthy.