 THE People’s Democratic Party (PDP) on Tuesday resumed its protest in Abuja. It called on the European Union (EU), the United Nations (UN) and France to intervene in what it described as threats to democracy and miscarriage of justice. The party submitted petitions to the EU and UN offices and the French Embassy. Also yesterday, the Imo State chapter of the party vowed to continue with protests despite Governor Hope Uzodinma’s warning. In Abuja, PDP urged France and the international bodies to prevail on the Federal Government to preserve democratic institutions and the sanctity of the ballot. The party leaders were led by the Deputy National Chairman (North), Senator Sulaiman Nazif. They took off from the party’s campaign headquarters, Legacy House, in the Maitama. They were received by officials of the EU, UN and the French embassy. Addressing reporters, Zazif bemoaned what he described as the intimidation of the legislative and judicial arms by the executive. He said: “We are not happy. We are not satisfied with the way democracy is being run in Nigeria. “We have come here to complain because we have realized that the National Assembly is being intimidated by the executive. “The judiciary is being arm-twisted; the rule of law has become a mockery and we thought it wise to come and lay our complaint because they no longer listen to anybody. “That is why the PDP decided to reach out to the international community to lay a complaint concerning the Electoral Act that has not been assented to up till now. This is five years since the inception of this administration. “You are aware of the systematic collapse of our electoral processes, the way elections are being conducted. “In Kogi, we saw what transpired in the last election. Nigerians have seen for themselves what the opposition party is going through. “We saw what happened in Bayelsa. We saw what happened in Imo concerning the Supreme Court judgment and we are calling for a review of that judgment. “We believe that with pressure from international organisations, the right thing will be done”. The party’s National Secretary, Senator Umar Tsauri, alleged that democracy was being derailed in the country. The PDP in Imo told Governor Uzodinma that he has no power to stop them from protesting against injustices. The party also insisted that it would continue to protest over the outcome of the Supreme Court judgment which removed Emeka Ihedioha as the governor. Last week, Uzodinma said he would no longer tolerate protests capable of inciting the people. But, in a statement issued after the party’s stakeholders meeting in Owerri, PDP said it would “continue to employ every legal means available to make sure that the unjust judgment against the party, Governor Emeka Ihedioha and his Deputy Gerald Irona by the Supreme Court is reviewed and reversed.” The statement, signed by the party’s state publicity secretary, Damian Oparah, added that “the party shall keep on demonstrating/protesting within the constitutional right of her members to peacefully and publicly show our support” to Ihedioha and Irona. The party vowed to recover the seats of PDP House of Assembly members who defected to the All Progressives Congress (APC). “The party in Imo State, shall, in conjunction with the national organs of the party employ all legal options to recover their seats in the House of Assembly, as the National Secretariat had already declared their seats vacant,” PDP said. It urged members to remain faithful as a better future was ahead. It described the recent developments as “a temporal set back”. This was as Governor Uzodinma reiterated his commitment to due process and accountable governance. He debunked reports that he had abandoned the Treasury Single Accounts (TSA) established by the Ihedioha administration. A statement by the governor’s spokesman, Oguwike Nwachuku, noted that on assumption of office, Uzodinma had warned that all state funds must be domiciled in the TSA. Oguwike said: “Governor Uzodinma’s directive to that effect is being complied fully by all heads of ministries, departments and agencies of government in the state. “He frowns at the mismanagement of scarce state resources by the past administrations and is putting in place mechanisms to achieve commendable accountability in office. “Governor Uzodinma will not be a party to any attitude that promotes financial malfeasance in Imo under his watch,” the statement adds.