21 year-old, Maryam Apaokagi popularly known as Taaooma, was born in Ilorin but spent most of her years growing up in Namibia. The comedy skit content provider who came back to Nigeria for her university education also got interested in cinematography and has been producing skits for some time. In this interview with SAMPSON UNAMKA, she speaks on her motivations, challenges, among other isssues related to producing skits. Enjoy How long have you been doing skits and how were you able to balance school and skit production? About five years now. It has not been easy at all because I had to come home from school every weekend to shoot skits and go back to school to edit. I had to try my best to be stable on both sides. Trust me, it’s not easy but then Allahmdulilah I sailed through. You have a degree in Tourism and Travel Services Management, why not theatre arts? Yes, I have a degree in Tourism. While choosing a course, I didn’t mind which course I would be given. I just wanted to finish the school with a degree because the course I had always wanted was Law and since I was told it was not available that time I just went for anything. How did you come up with your concept? I reminisce on things mums do/did sometimes, and sometimes I observe things around me to give me ideas. From there, I initiate my idea same as Taaooma’s role and my husband’s role (Kunle) Your style is different, what inspires your skits? God is my biggest inspiration, then my mom and my boyfriend, Abula. They inspire me to keep going and keep doing more. If I see these two people around me when I am doing any skit trust me it’s a goal already. How do you manage to take three parts at once and how long does it take to produce a skit? Do you have a team or it’s just you that runs the whole production process from shooting to final production? The multi character part seems to be the most challenging, especially when I have to show them all in the same shot. When I like a skit so much, I can shoot and get it ready in five hours. But normally, I spend 2-3 days for a proper production. Most of the time, I shoot myself but sometimes when my boyfriend is around, he helps me shoot. He’s a popular Nigerian music video director, Abuja. All my edits are done by me. I only get help for the shooting once in a while. Are your parents in support of what you do? Haaa this same Nigerian parents we all have? Parents do not support these things at first. At first, my mom didn’t like it. She felt it wasn’t a good thing to do. It even caused a little rift between her and my boyfriend but he was later able to convince her it’s not a big deal. My dad is very fine with it. So far I keep my morals and don’t get naked.  Mistakes you’ve made that you won’t make again if you were to start afresh? Not checking the best times to upload my videos, or having the patience to make all things perfect for shoot in terms of location, costume, make up, etc. I have made these mistakes several times and I have learnt from it that tiny details do matter a lot and what is worth doing is worth doing well. What do you have to say to people that are trying the same thing but not getting it? It is not easy. It gets frustrating; you will feel like giving up but keep pushing and working tirelessly. Dreams come true. One major thing: you must believe in yourself and be you. Do you plan your skits or it just comes with the flow? Most times I don’t plan it, it just comes and I quickly shoot so that the zeal won’t go away. For example, like the day I slapped my husband when I wanted to slap my brother (Tao). I just thought of it that I should slap Tao someday and funny enough Tao dodged the slap and I slapped his dad. Obstacles you’ve faced and how did you deal with them? Cyber bullies; one thing that’s very common in the industry right now. But then, Alhamudulilah,  I just ignore them or block them. Recently on Twitter, some assertions have been made that some of your skits promote child abuse with the way you slap Tao continuously. Is there anything you’ll want to clear up? A lot of people do not understand that the slap is just a signature I have added to the skit. It is there to make the skit very humorous. Will you say Kemi Adetiba is promoting gun violence for her movie, King of Boys? No. These skits are purely for entertainment. Funnily enough, most of these people shouting child abuse were duly spanked by their parents (typical Nigerian). Don’t be deceived by the sound effect of the slap. It’s very fake (original fake). How do your friends and family see your works? Have you thought of acting full time? They all love it and most of them have my videos on their phones. They are always the first to share whenever I drop a new skit. Funnily enough, when I am with some friends and family they ask me to act the IYA TAO’S role. I don’t have any choice than to act that way so they can laugh and let me rest.  What’s the average time it takes you to make a skit? It depends on my mood. Sometimes I can spend 2-3days to make some skits. So it ranges from five hours to 11 hours to make a complete DOPE skits. Your comedy reflects the humour of maternal discipline… will you say your childhood influences your work? Yes, my childhood has a very big influence on my videos. My mom is a strict no-nonsense woman (disciplinarian for that matter). She respects value and morals a lot. I got a few spankings from her here and there but not the way I portray it in my skits. My skits are highly exaggerated to make it funnier (making everyone happy is the goal). How do you picture your journey into Nollywood? A lot of people think you are an actress…What’s next after comedy? Haaaaaaaa actress? If they say so. If they are happy I am happy, but then there are ongoing plans to make a full feature movie that will make you my wonderful fans laugh so much that…… Abula and I own a company called The Greenade Company. It’s a full time video production company and part of the plan is to make big movies in coming years. Patience Ozokwor or Joke Silva? They are both my favourites ooooo.  Mumy Joke kind of action though (smiles). I want to have it, so somebody like Tao can respect me.  Muma G’s kind of principle my mummy (Iya Tao) needs it to deal it with my daddy every time.