 The management of Kano Electricity Distribution Company (KEDCO) has promised uninterrupted power supply in Kano, Katsina and Jigawa States, if its numerous customers would pay electricity bills regularly as well as help report issues of power theft, illegal connection and meter bypass and other attempts at sabotaging installations. According to a Statement by KEDCO’s Head of Corporate Communication, Ibrahim Sani Shawai, “the management stated that, ” with the massive investment in network expansion and efforts of the Federal Government in the power sector, the only set back to uninterrupted power supply in the area remain the huge debts that some customers have refused to pay as well as the activities that scuttle power installations.” The management, explained that, KEDCO is into power distribution business which means it must pay for power transmitted to it by the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) without excuse. If KEDCO buys and distribute, it needs to get back the money from customers to pay back to secure more for subsequent distribution. “Our greatest challenge has remain the refusal of some customers to pay bills as well as report issues of vandalism and power theft. We have the capacity and the network to give uninterrupted power supply as we have been improving but somehow the huge debts have really become an issue that must be addressed to keep our commitment intact to TCN and other stakeholders because we don’t generate power. “ This is the reason we have always embarked on massive sensitization on the need for customers to partner with us to see how we can collectively guarantee maximum satisfaction to all stakeholders involved in power distribution in Kano franchise. Once customers pay and we pay our remittance to TCN and it continues up to the generation line, we would have no issue with getting power to distribute. “Our customers must know that their regular commitment in payment of bills has overall impact on power sector reforms in the country because we are part of the reforms and we will continue to give our best to fast-track more improvement,” the statement added. The statement called on customers to partner with KEDCO in ensuring that their commitment in paying bills and reporting issues of vandalism and other attempts at scuttling power installations are improved upon as it is key to power sector development.