Our Reporter  It would be nice to rake in some cash without having to lift a finger, and even if you do, not much is demanded to have some money flowing into your account. In recent years, passive income has risen as a common way to see this option come to life. The growth of these jobs is propelled by the dwindling nature of white-collar jobs that dominate the workforce. These jobs have been made possible by the entry of the internet about two decades ago and have created niches that would otherwise not exist offline or would be hard to get to. The popularity is further driven by the use of smartphones, tablets, and other computers that are configured to access the web. With this knowledge, passive income is defined as a way to make money with little to no effort being applied. Usually, to get to this point, some options demand the input of a lot of work before becoming an infinite money stream. In other cases, it is linked to practices that demand continuous commitment so that they can become an income stream as well. Passive income is also related to some practices that require little effort to no effort with immediate or continuous results. If you are looking to set yourself up using this route, here are fifteen options that you can pay attention to: This option has been tried and tested by millions around the world as a way to rake in some serious cash passively. This mode of earning money does require one to invest before they can receive any profits, but they can be used to make more than one thousand dollars per month. People with fat bank accounts can put in a significant amount of money at a go, and they can expect massive dividend checks in return. However, consistent pumping of cash can also work to amass a good profit over time if putting in a lot at a go proves too much for your finances.  Dividend-paying investments require you to perform a lot of research before putting your money in any stock basket. Other areas aside from the stock market prove helpful in making money in this manner like ETFs and online platforms like Lending Club. No work is demanded on your part at all – only your money. Choose investments that are likely to score returns of more than 15% per year to get your money’s worth, and ensure you are willing to abide by the course until its time to reap returns. The real estate market is growing consistently in many parts of the globe, which makes it an ideal industry to invest in for passive income. After you go through the trouble of putting up a property, you can sit back and wait for monthly income to flow in from renting it out. You can make this option entirely passive by employing the services of a property management firm to handle any issues with the property on your behalf for a commission. The online platform makes it easier for anyone to invest in rentals if you do not have the capital to raise a building or don’t want to sit through the process. Assess your interests in the industry and how much money you are willing to pump into the venture. You can also choose to be one of many partners owning a building or purchase one on your own. Businesses have the potential to rake in millions, and you can be part of the team sharing the spoils if you invest in one. You do not have to be involved in the running of the business actively. Instead, you would pump in some cash to help the venture take off, and then wait to enjoy the profits generated as a silent partner. 