There are concerns over growing investor apathy towards business opportunities in Nigeria by hitherto willing partners from within the African sub region and the world at large, most of who made the economy thrive in the past. In this report, Charles Okonji examines the remote causes of this development Nigeria is no longer the choice destination for investors, no thanks to a combination of factors bordering on the superficial to the complex. Time was when Nigeria was the big deal when it comes to investments whether in terms of natural resources or human capital, to mention just a few. Many people literally fell over themselves just to cut deals with Nigeria because of the high returns on investment. But not anymore. But how did Nigeria, hitherto the most sought-after beautiful bride by the foreign investing public, suddenly become a leper being avoided by many of its former trade partners? Points to ponder A constellation of factors are to blame for why Nigeria no longer appeals to investors worldwide.
One pointer to this is the recent delisting by the International Finance Corporate (IFC), which blacklisted the country from among the top five investment destinations.
IFC, an arm of the World Bank saddled with the responsibilities of investing in emerging markets of the world, came up with this report as a result of huge deficit in infrastructure which hinders economic development of the country, amongst others.
The nation’s infrastructure deficit is estimated at over N30trillion.
According to the Country Manager of IFC, Eme Essien Lore, who spoke last Friday at the Second Private Equity Summit organised by Udo Udoma and Bello Osagie, Nigeria has enough natural mineral deposits to do better than other African countries, but the country has failed to utilise its human capital as well as other resources for national development.
“Nigeria is placed among the top 10 economies where investors should look to invest, it lost the top five place where she belonged,” he said, adding, “The country is surrounded with many challenges that have hindered its economic progress, which ranges from declining per capital income to external imbalance, increasing poverty, as well as disturbing human capital indicators in health and education. There is no excuse for Nigeria to lose its place among the top five countries in Africa. The country needs to put economic policies in place to get back to its position. The slow pace of the economy is clouding potential growth and favourable demographics in Nigeria. The government needs reforms that will translate to economic development to attract investors.”
It may be recalled that the World Bank Group (World Bank) on Thursday, 24 October 2019, published its 2020 Ease of Doing Business Report, saw Nigeria ranking 131 out of 190 countries on the ease of doing business index, which depicts an upward movement of 15 places from 2019 ranking of 146.
According to that report, Nigeria improved in eight indicators, with the greatest overall positive movement being on dealing with construction permits. Nigeria moved from 149 to 55 within a year, indicating that it is easier to build warehouses, factories, etc. (including obtaining the necessary licenses and permits) in Nigeria than 135 other countries in the world. What report means for economy It is, however, instructive to note that the most recent drop in the investment destination position contradicts the Ease of Doing Business rating earlier released by the parent body.
While assessing the outcome of the report, the Director General of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), Dr. Muda Yusus, described the development as nothing to cheer about.
In the view of the LCCI boss, at the centre of any critical development in any country is the private sector investments.
“Private sector financing is critical to the advancement of the Nigerian economy. The current fiscal condition of government makes this even more imperative. The government is not adequately leveraging funding opportunities in the private sector to support development project. With the right kind of economic policies and the right quality of institutions, it should not be difficult to attract foreign investors to complement public sector financing. Currently, the macro-economic dashboard is looking good, but this must be complemented with quality institutional and policy environment to be able to attract private sector capital for the financing of government projects.”
The quality of spending, he notes, “is also a very critical issue. This relates to the challenges of leakages and corruption, huge government spending on petroleum importation and the associated leakages and many more.” Factors necessary for inflow of foreign capital In the view of Yusuf, “Offshore financing of projects and investments is a critical component of the financing options for an economy. But there are conditions precedent for these to happen.” Specifically, he says, “The foreign exchange policy must enhance liquidity in the forex market and inspire confidence,” noting that “Contracting processes and tenders must be transparent and open.”
He further adds that dispute resolution system must be credible and fast. This, he says, “is important because FDI investments are long term investments.
“The macro-economic dashboard must inspire confidence. This is dependent on the quality of economic management.”
Expatiating, Yusuf says there must be robust public-private partnership programmes geared towards developing transparent bidding and tendering process for public projects.
A credible dispute resolution system, he further stresses, will spur quality economic management systems as well as inspire confidence. Constraints to domestic private sector financing In view of expert analysts, the key impediments to domestic private sector financing are the cost of fund, the tenure of fund and weak venture capital regime. The weak funding from capital market because of the huge returns on investment in the money market is an issue just as access to credit by SMEs is very difficult, because of collateral requirements.
Many SMEs depend on suppliers’ credit, cooperatives, finance companies, relatives, money lenders and microfinance banks to meet their financing needs. The challenges they face have made it difficult for them to optimise the potential in the sector, experts have argued.
Power sector challenges
“Power sector issue is crucial at this critical stage of our economy, knowing that the increased generation and distribution of power plays a significant role in the development of our economy,” Wahab Adio, a public affairs analyst, argues.
According to him, the Nigerian economy can truly be an investors’ haven “if the issues around the power sector are holistically addressed.”
The government is expected to provide an enabling environment “for private sector investments in the embedded power generation sector. because the sector has witnessed myriad of limiting factors like poor gas supply, huge legacy debts and poor access to credit.”
Currently, the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC)’s embedded power regulation allows an independent power producer to embed power within the network of the local distribution company without going through the trouble of connecting to the transmission network. It is evident that government alone cannot fill the power supply and demand gaps in the economy.
In the estimation of analysts, the private sector must therefore be empowered and attracted to actively participate in power generation and distribution. Democratic values Countries with adherence to democratic values offer very good attraction to investors. Such values inspire investors’ confidence.
However, core democratic values are yet to take firm root in our democracy, especially in the following respects:
Accountability by the political leadership at all levels, transparency in the management of public finance, rule of law, separation of powers and the inherent checks and balances, quality and independence of democratic institutions – electoral bodies, law enforcement agencies, judiciary, amongst others.
Security situation
Security situation in the country deteriorated in the last few years. It impacted on investment risk, worsened our perception and image at the global level. Access to markets in the troubled parts of the country has reduced for many enterprises and this is already affecting sales and profitability. Also many enterprises have re-located either to other parts of the country, or even outside the country.
Also related to security threat is the escalating oil theft and the vandalisation of pipe lines. Billions of dollars have been lost in revenue; many lives have been lost as well. The environment of affected communities had suffered serious degradation as a consequence of this problem. Indeed, the oil and gas sector suffered negative growth on the back of this challenge. Other constraints to real sector The Nigeria business environment is generally challenging for manufacturing enterprise because of the quality of infrastructure; which is why the risk of industrial investment is high and continues to increase. The various policy interventions have not had the desired impact on the sector. Unless there is an effective and sustained protection and support for the sector, and a dramatic improvement in infrastructure, the outlook the sector will remain gloomy, particularly for the small scale industries.
It is impossible to have a vibrant manufacturing sector in the face of rampant dumping of cheap imports in the country. Some of these imports are landing at 50 percent of the cost of products produced locally. Besides, manufacturers have to worry about high energy cost because the power improvement is yet to be sustained; they have to worry about high interest rates – 20 percent and above; they have to worry about a multitude of regulatory agencies making different demands on them; they have to worry about massive smuggling and under invoicing of imports and many more. The multinationals and other conglomerates in the sector may have the resilience to cope. But for most manufacturing SMEs, it is a nightmare. Yet production is critical to an enduring economic and social stability. The way forward is to address the fundamental constraints to manufacturing competitiveness in the Nigerian economy.
The reality is that job losses in the sector have been on the increase over the years as productivity declined on the back of the harsh operating environment. However, the multinationals and conglomerates have shown some positive trend in performance and resilience, especially in the foods and beverage sector as well in the cement industry. Even then, they would do much better if the operating environment were better. Relationship between politics, economy and investment There is a strong relationship between political stability and economic progress. An unstable political environment naturally escalates the risk of investment; it creates anxiety and undermines confidence of investors. No meaningful investment can take place where there is no regard for rule of law. We should not create a situation where citizens and investors (domestic and foreign) lose confidence in the state institutions. Public institutions are very important factors in regulating behaviour of citizens and stabilising the society. A loss of confidence in state institution is a recipe for anarchy.
It is imperative to ensure the credibility and integrity of our institutions. In this respect, we wish to reiterate the critical importance of respect for rule of law and independence and neutrality of the institutions of the state.
According to a professor of Economics and Public Policy, Professor Akpan Ekpo, who is also the Director General, West African Institute for Financial and Economic Management (WAIFEM), various policies, programmes and strategies meant to address economic development in the country have not yielded the desired result due to faulty design and implementation.
“Nigeria has security challenges, I’m sure you are aware. More in the north east but there are other pockets and not just security challenges, all these were taken into account and they factors and that is one of the reasons. But the point is that, even if we are delisted, there are certain areas where investors will come because of the high returns. For example, the extractive and oil industry in particular, no matter what, if there is a war, they will go there and try and make their money because of very high returns, that is one.”
Besides, he says, the spate of kidnapping and armed robbery will be a factor responsible for the blacklisting of the country as an economic power house. “The irony is that you are delisting the country, yet we move a little bit up in the ease of doing business, right? So there is a contradiction, if there is ease of doing business, then why are we being delisted?”
Pressed further, he says, “In my view, I think it’s mainly for security reasons in terms of the things I have mentioned earlier. When it comes to the oil sector and the rest, no matter what, they will still come, because when we say we are attracting Foreign Direct Investment (FDI), we are not attracting a lot of FDI, we are not attracting a lot of non-oil FDI; they don’t come in. What we see is portfolio investment, and that is also affected by security reasons. They come and invest in our capital and stock market and any small hiccup, they move their money away. That is hot money, it will not help us much. But to come and build something here, we have not had a reasonable inflow for some time, except for oil portfolio investment and any small hiccup they go away.”
While acknowledging the fact that there is no room for bias on the part of the IFC, as by its nature, it doesn’t interfere with governance processes of countries. The varsity don, however, stated that there is need to galvanise positive action aimed at building a strong domestic economy. “We must make conscious efforts to put the right things in place; we need to manage the economy well, so that we can then participate in the global system. If we look at all those things, your unemployment rate in Nigeria is very high; inflation is trending upwards, the growth is just sluggish and laggard when you consider all these factors. So, they may agree that we don’t have a good environment and that we will not come. So those are the things potential investors consider.”
He further reiterates that running an economy on generators has its implications on the overall well-being of the economy itself.
“As we are saying, we have a power system where you can’t use power for eight hours in a day; it is very epileptic. The whole economy is based on generator; we are running a generator-driven economy. So these are very important. Infrastructural deficit is very high, especially power. And if you remember, they have budgeted a lot of money for infrastructural development like power, but are they going to do it. Each time we say we will do something we don’t do it. Power is very crucial of course; infrastructures like power are also crucial. Roads, railways all those things were considered before delisting Nigeria.”
The bottom line, he maintains, “Is that we need to build Nigeria’s resources instead of human material. We can build a strong domestic economy that the world will be envious of, instead of trying to externalise our problems, because we take our problems outside that will not help us.”
The country’s debt profile, he stresses, needs to be critically looked into.
“You will notice that is increasing, the debt ratio is increasing, we are not sure whether the economy, and whatever we do is sustainable in the long term. These are the things they consider before they delist any economy.”
Policy matrix of the government, according to the professor of economics, needs some tweaking. “You know that our policies have not been consistent, they have been adhoc, and they have been inconsistent. It is the bigger factor, and there’s something we call lack of structure. We take too much time before we implement what we say we want to do, but we must give one credit to government for the first time, the 2020 budget has come out in time. It is very timely but it is still a budget. We are not sure whether we have the resources to implement the budget, the coming out on time is very important being that now they can begin to implement it while we sort it immediately and that would have been a plus. In fact, it is just one case in several years.”
While citing the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP), whose winding down date is mid 2020, he says, there is nothing to indicate that the vacuum would be filled anytime soon. “The ERGP is ending this year, what have we done to either put a new one in place or extend it? Are we going to wait till it totally ends June?” he queries.
“We have been saying that we need planning, have we started it? So these are the things we look at. How is government constraining it is policies? But recently, you closed your boarder, what did you put in place? Nobody knows whether your closing of borders is part of an overall strategy or not.”