The National Horticultural Research Institute (NIHORT) has stated that 700,000 metric tonnes of tomato was required to meet national demand. Its Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer, Dr Abayomi Olaniyan, made this known in Abuja on Wednesday at a two- day training workshop organised by the institute for critical stakeholders in tomato and telfairia production and value addition. Olaniyan, who said though Nigeria is currently producing 2.3 million metric tonnes as against 1.8 million produced two years ago, reiterated the needed to meet the three million metric tonne national demand. He decried that one of the major reasons for the deficit was post harvest loss, adding that about 40 per cent of tomatoes were often wasted. He said: ” Tomato production in Nigeria is still short of what is demanded particularly during the second and third quota of the year. “While about three million metric tonne is the national requirement, about 2.3 metric tonne is the production.” He added that tomato nursery practices was another reason for the deficit in supply, stressing that “tomato management is important for future development of the commodity value chain. “Nursery is a basic need and prerequisite for producing quality seedlings. Putting efforts on quality seedling production offers scope for sustainable tomato production. “Additionally, nursery provides employment opportunities for technical, skilled, semi skilled and unskilled labour.” On telfairia, Olaniyan noted that the leaf was of high nutritional, medicinal and industrial value, adding that it was rich in protein, fat, minerals and vitamins. According to him, there is high prospect in production and marketing of telfairia within and outside the country, saying basic knowledge on value addition was important. He said the two day training would cover tomato value addition and processing among other things, to reduce seasonal glut and inconsistent year round supply. The NIHORT boss added that processing of tomato would help reduce the amount been imported into the country particularly “during lean season of tomato supply.”