 Pan-Yoruba self-determination group, known as the Coalition of Oodua Self-Determination Groups (COSEG), has commended the governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai, for his stand on the 2023 presidency and throwing his weight behind the turn of the South West to produce the next president. The position of the COSEG was made public through a statement on Thursday in Lagos issued by Comrade Ifedayo Ogunlana and Comrade Dele Daramola,the Chairman and Publicity Secretary of  its Coordinating Council respectively, which commended the governor of Kaduna State for his stand on the 2023 presidency controversy between the North and the South, stressing that he has shown that he is a pan-Nigerian leader that can be trusted. The COSEG said: “We commend the governor of Kaduna State for saying not only the obvious but reality that the presidency in 2023 should come to the South. Fairness and justice are ingredients and tenents of democracy. By 2023, President Buhari, who we supported to be president and still support  without looking back, would have spent  eight full years and wonder how on earth will somebody in his right senses say the contrary.  It is on this basis, we give kudos to Governor el-Rufai for standing tall among his people to say the truth”. The COSEG lambasted the youths making undemocratic utterances. The group said: “We are not perturbed by the false pretence always put up by some youths when discussing sensitive national issues that need his clearheadness and sense of fairness. We know these people cannot change. We are only miffed by their attack on a man who made bold to state the obvious. It is wicked of these youths to still believe that by 2023, presidency will still stand in the north. What a cruel and wicked belief against the tenants of democracy which are justice and fairness”. The COSEG concluded by warning enemies of democracy in the north, calling for the jettisoning of the rotational presidency between the North and the South to keep their mouths shut.  