 HONESTLY, if I were not a Nigerian, I would have run away from this country a long time ago. Unfortunately, to my tiniest, weeny bit toe, I am Nigerian born, nurtured and trained. So, I have no other place to go. Which country can I go and they won’t ask me sooner than later: don’t you have a home to go to? Besides, in which other country in the world is amala a legal food, if not in Nigeria? In other countries, I swear they could throw you in jail for eating that black, gooey stuff. In Nigeria though, no one raises an eyebrow when you ask for the black, gooey stuff. Viva le Nigeria! For Nigeria being home has nothing to do with birthplace or passport; it’s all in the sermon that amala preaches: peace, man, peace! However, one thing we must all agree on is the fact that this ‘home’ is in dire straits. Some of its troubles predate this present government while some can be traced to this government’s making. For instance, the economic downturn predates this government; it’s in our spendthrift gene. The heightening of the security problems though can be traced to this government; it’s in its failure to tackle the emboldened moves of gun-toting cattle herders and kidnapping adventurers. Now, no one is safe anymore anywhere in this country, neither king nor pauper, palace or farm across the land. Kings and their families are now freely abducted in their palaces and farmers can no longer go to farm without setting lookouts; and as if that helps! Within the last two weeks, people abducted have died despite families paying the demanded ransoms. For such arrant, utter, blatant and complete security failures, any sitting government is squarely expected to take responsibility by either admitting to its fault and resigning, or tackling it. We have seen neither. Things have just continued to slide. Why, just this week, I read that the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) put the latest unemployment figures for Nigeria, as at 2019, at 23 million; and when combined with underemployment, comes to 43.3 million. These figures, scary as they are, are set to rise, according to projections. THAT, PEOPLE, IS A 23-MAN-ARMY ARMY WAITING TO EXPLODE. The thing is, how did these sad figures come about? Rightly, we might all blame the economy but I think it’s more than that. Even the kidnapper who bloats his account with hundreds of millions of Naira does too. Why, the other day, I saw pictures of some of the houses allegedly owned by the alleged kidnapper, Mr. Evans, both in Nigeria and Ghana, and I could not help drooling ‘oohs’ and ‘aahs’. I think it should illegal for anyone to own any house that can make people go ‘ooh’ and ‘aah’. Anyway, the thing is that he can claim the economy drove him to it. The causes of this economic disaster do not take much guessing. Any cake (to use the national metaphor for our national resources) that is perpetually depleted without being replaced will sooner or later finish. The national profligacy, for which we have been known over the years and over past governments, has finally brought the country to its knees. Surprisingly though, our leaders are still in denial of the effects of this horrible habit. They are still eating; the twin habits of mismanagement and blatant looting at all levels – national, state and local governments – have dominated the governing ethos and style, till today. Worse, the looted funds have nearly always been repatriated abroad to unknown lands for hopeful tomorrows which many of the looters never do see or know. The large appetite for life might also be a contributing factor to these high rise unemployment figures. It is well known that Nigerians like to live big and lavishly – big houses, big cars, big wives or husbands, etc., and it does not matter whether they work for the money or not. It’s even better if they don’t work for the money. Who better to feed this big appetite, than the government? The result is that the nation suffers from the absence of such funds when factories are not set up or are dried up. Unemployment follows. Perhaps, one other reason, as has been pointed out before, lies in the fact that this country has not been fortunate to be led by visionary, knowledge-seeking individuals who have great dreams for the land and are ready to work assiduously for the realisation of such dreams. Thus, under most of our leaders, the country has been left to drift and flounder like some lost ship on a storm-seized sea. Policies that would have benefitted the country have not been put in place by governments too timid to seize the day; and those that have killed people’s initiatives have been put in place. remember the bicycle story? Thus it is that today, nations that have no natural resources whatsoever have low unemployment while Nigeria has this high figure. Carpal diem is not just a song; it is a directive. There are so many examples of nations that rely only on their mental resources to bring their nations into the twenty-first century. The story is told that in the nineteen eighties, when the civil service sent people abroad to US or Britain on some in-service training or conference, Nigerian contingents would be more interested in their allowances while the Japanese or Chinese contingents would gather after each day’s training to compare notes on what they had learnt so that they could give competent reports back home. They were paying attention for the benefit of their land. Nigerian contingents were not paying attention to the detriment of their land. The focal transgression of our several governments has culminated in this abominable problem today. Most Nigerian governments, since the sixties, have rather expended their energies on the silly notion of capturing the government for their various tribal groups, rather than laying a solid developmental foundation for the country. Hence, most of the policies have taken the power of employment out of the hand of the industry and have put it in the hand of the government through enacting tribe-serving policies. Worse, most of the citizenry have been left uneducated, unread, illiterate and dependent. No Nigerian government has, as yet, learnt the lesson that it must put books in the hands of its citizens, not guns. That is what’ll end the hunger in the stomach and give them hunger for knowledge. Without this vital lesson, the 23-million-man army is just waiting…. I agree with you that among the 23 million unemployed are graduates of universities and polytechnics, i.e., those who can read and write but have no jobs. That is exactly the point. Since the country has not imbibed the lesson on innovativeness and developmental creativity, nothing can grow. In other words, most of our graduates now are literate but not educated. This is why many of them are still dependent, cannot innovate, easily become political pawns and thugs, and are easily persuaded into crime to set up kidnapping cells. So you see, the problem is not just the economy; it’s our attitude and aptitude. Nigerians, both individuals and governments alike, need to remove their heads from the clouds and get down to brass tacks. It does not take too much to build a nation; just a people willing to solve their own social, political and hunger problems legitimately, such as making amala available in the land. We can diversify the economy to solve the problem of unemployment. Methinks though that we need to diversify the government’s and individual’s thinking first. We must learn to put on our thinking caps. But, that is a subject for another day.