Tony Akowe, Abuja Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Yekini Nabena has said that the judgement of the Supreme Court affirming David Lyon as the duly nominated candidate of the party in the November 16 2019 governorship election as victory for the people of Bayelsa state. Nabena who argued that the suit filed by former Minister of State for Agriculture, Heineken Lokpobiri was baseless said the Supreme Court took side with the people of Bayelsa state in delivering the judgement. Nabena who is also the Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the party however said the former lawmaker was well within his legal rights to approach the courts. Nabena said, “I congratulate the Bayelsa State Governor-elect, Chief David Lyon and all party stakeholders on the Supreme Court judgement affirming David Lyon as the valid APC Governorship candidate for Bayelsa state. The Apex Court in their ruling sided with Bayelsans. “From the APC primaries to the governorship election, it was clear that Bayelsans knew who they wanted to govern them. The decision of Party members and the Bayelsa electorate was unanimous as seen in the overwhelming votes they gave the governor-elect, David Lyon in the APC direct primaries and the governorship election. “Although baseless, Senator Heineken Lokpobiri decided to petition the election in the courts. As we can see, that petition has been dismissed and put to rest by the Supreme Court. We are now focused on delivering our electoral promise to Bayelsans and bring true development which our dear state deserves. “Bayelsans can go home and enjoy responsibly a glass of Heineken.” David Lyon will be inaugurated on Friday, February 14, 2020 as the governor of Bayelsa state. A five-member panel of the court led by Justice Mary Peter-Odili unanimously dismissed the appeal filed by Heineken Lokpobiri, who had instituted his case seeking to be declared the valid winner of September 4, 2019 primary election of the All Progressives Congress. Delivering the lead judgment of the apex court, Justice Inyang Okoro affirmed the January 11, 2020 judgment of the Port Harcourt Division of the Court of Appeal, which had earlier dismissed Lokpobiri’s suit challenging Lyon’s victory in the primary election.