Worried by the growing traffic snarls in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), the authorities have taken steps to stem the ugly trend. GBENGA OMOKHUNU reports.  As the seat of the Federal Government, the global eyes are on every part of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). There is an urgent need for an effective transport policy that will compete favourably with other developing countries across the world. Apart from major hotspots in the nation’s capital, the Central Business District (CBD) is said to be the main focus of the government. The ubiquitous commercial motorcyclists are not permitted to operate anywhere near the CBD while delivery motorcycle riders plying the route are made to follow strict traffic rules. Other parts of the FCT present different stories in terms of transport system. All forms of informal transportation are gradually turning the capital city into a rowdy entity. The daily influx of people into the capital city and its satellite towns and settlements is begging to take the heavy toll on the transport system, particularly intracity transport. Avoidable and unnecessary traffic congestion along major arterial roads has become a daily nightmare. The roads become one big bedlam as motorists and other road users ignore traffic rules. Pedestrian walkways are not spared by desperate drivers who would do everything to beat the traffic. In most parts of the city centre, pedestrian bridges and zebra crossings are ignored by impatient drivers. Driving against traffic, overloading by commercial vehicles, parking in wrong places have all combined to worsen the situation. It is against this backdrop that the FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Bello, mobilised the Directorate of Road Traffic Services (DRTS) to address the chaos. A total of 22 operational utility vehicles and 60-speed motorcycles have been provided to aid the task. Our correspondent gathered that the task is being undertaken in collaboration with relevant government agencies. These include the Nigerian Police Force, the Civil Defence, the Directorate of State Services and of course, the Federal Road Safety Corps.  The FCT lacked a functional and reliable public transportation system The most important requirements for the smooth running of a large city is a functional and reliable public transportation system. The system in place has failed to meet the transport needs and challenges of all categories of people. This has placed Abuja on the list of city with high motor accident rates, second only to Lagos.  While unveiling the newly acquired vehicles and motorcycles, the Minister warned officials against abuse of office while discharging their duties. Bello said his administration will not protect any public officer who indulges in abuse of the power and privileges attached to such office. The minister noted that the acquired vehicles and motorbikes were to support the administration’s revived transportation and traffic management strategies, aimed at enhancing traffic free flow and security within the territory. He warned DRTS officials to handle their duties with utmost diligence and in accordance with extant rules. The minister added that the government would hold violators individually and collectively responsible for misuse of the vehicles, and that they would be made to face the law where a case of abuse of office is established. He said: “We have been informed by experts that the cause of these road accidents in Abuja is not bad roads. As a matter of fact, the accidents occur because the roads are very good and this is a pity because good roads are meant to make it easy for citizens to operate on them. They are not meant to make citizens be more accident-prone.” The minister further noted that one of the major challenges the FCT administration is facing has to do with implementing an efficient and safe transport policy. The motoring public, he noted, do not obey traffic rules and regulations. “We still have many drivers in the city and surrounding satellite towns who operate vehicles that are not road worthy or who do not operate their vehicles the way they should be operated. They break all traffic rules and regulations, making the roads unsafe for other law-abiding citizens. The FCT Administration will continue to insist and ensure that all operators of motor vehicles, motorcycles, articulated trucks and in areas where they are allowed, tricycles, are all done with the existing laws and regulations.” The minister assured that transport gaps necessitated by the ban on tricycles in some parts of the city would be filled. According to him, talks are ongoing with some companies in the private sector, with a view to having them deploy vehicles for taxis and to provide buses where necessary. The Acting Director, FCT Transportation Secretariat, Mrs. Alice Odey-Achu, also said the newly unveiled operational vehicles and motorbikes would enable the secretariat to cover more areas in traffic management. Odey-Achu, who was represented by Director of Traffic Management, Mr. Okon Etim, urged the administration to try and implement Urban Traffic Control (UTC) system in the city. He said: “There is a need to implement Urban Traffic Control (UTC) System in the city where all traffic light signals will be co-ordinated for the free flow of traffic. The system will have a dual function of controlling traffic and detection of crimes.”