Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, has urged Nigerians to unite against terrorism to enable the government defeat Boko Haram insurgents. He also berated those calling for the sack of the service chiefs over the insecurity in the country. Mustapha said President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration would not sack the service chiefs without following due process. The SGF warned those he said were creating cracks and divisions in the country to desist. Mustapha addressed reporters in Abuja after a book presentation, titled: CAN, Religion, Politics and Power in Nigeria, written by a former General Secretary of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Samuel Salifu. He said: “We are in a very difficult time now. We need everybody to be on board. We need synergy within the intelligent community, within the military formations to help fight this war. “We are in a very difficult situation and when we begin to create cracks and divisions, who will be the beneficiaries? The adversaries are the ones that are going to exploit those deficiencies and further the cause of destabilising the nation.” The SGF the Federal Government desired that all Nigerians come “on the same page, fight the battle of securing the nation for protecting lives and property and ensure that every Nigerian has the opportunity to live a prosperous live. I think that should be our main focus”. A former Federal Commissioner for Information, Chief Edwin Clark, attributed the insecurity and disunity in the country to religious difference. He urged the government to ensure that no religion is regarded as superior to the other. Clark, who was represented by a former Nigerian Ambassador to Scandinavian, Mr. Godknows Igali, said: “I am very happy that the National Assembly, the Senate, wants to amend our Constitution. Like I stated recently in the media, religion should be one of the critical areas the Senate should look into.” CAN President, Rev. Samson Ayokunle, advised the government to end the killings in the land. He said: “Whatever is happening now will become history. This is why we should speak to those in government. Write a good history about yourself. Let Nigerians know you for peace.” Former Catholic Archbishop of Abuja, His Eminence John Cardinal Onaiyekan, expressed concern over the killings in the country. “Muslims and Christians can work together to make religion a factor of stability, unity, peace and prosperity. And we must insist on that because I do not see any option. There is an easy way to peace and prosperity than through the way of war.” A former Anambra State governor Dr. Chukwuemeka Ezeife accused politicians of fuelling major crisis in the country, saying a broken country is not the best for Nigeria.