By Morakinyo Abodunrin  Odion Ighalo keen desire to play for his new English Premier League side, Manchester United, will be rewarded in earnest following confirmation by manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer that the Nigerian will expectedly make his debut against Chelsea next Monday. Solskjaer hinted that the 30-year-old forward who moved to Old Trafford on a six-loan deal from Shanghai Shenhua  will travel with the squad to Stamford Bridge, adding the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) top scorer ‘is desperate to play for us.’ Though Ighalo has been ‘holed up’ in Manchester while his teammates are away on a six-day winter break camping in Spain, Solskjaer said he was already impressed with the player’s puritanical devotion and enthusiasm. “Yeah, he (Odion Ighalo) is going to travel with us (against Chelsea),” Solskjaer was quoted as saying  in an interview  with the club’s website from the Marbella Football Centre in Spain. “We will just see his fitness work this week and I think we will get him sharp.  “We want to integrate him as quickly as we can because, of course, he is desperate to play for us,” added the manager. Ighalo, a lifelong supporter of Manchester is already being tagged as the Reds’ passionate new no.25’  has been  working his socks  with personalised training at the gymnasium of GB (Great Britain) Taekwondo and under strict supervision of performance coach Wayne Richardson. “He was doing his pre-season, he had just started that out in China,” Richardson told the Manchester Evening News. “He’s come totally professional, totally prepared. He’s not come off the cuff or anything. He knows what he wants and what he wants to do.” A usual reliable source close to the player informed NationSport  last night  that Ighalo is leaving no stone unturned to hit the ground running on his eagerly awaited debut  as he bids for a successful spell with the EPL giants. “I’ve seen some of the video of his workouts and trainings; and what I see on his face is nothing than determination,” explained a close confidant of the player who craved for anonymity. “If you know Odion well, he doesn’t do anything at half measure and I think he is going to prove so many people wrong. “He’s looking fitter and sharper now and I hope he can translate all this efforts into the pitch when he’s called upon to play,” he added.