 In its effort to ensure that lack of access to credit and capital investments is a thing of the past, the Nigeria Medical Association (NMA) has urged the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to create the necessary environment for medical personnel to access favourable loans. This, according to the NMA, will enable those who want to set up private hospitals and other medical outfits to have access to favourable loans and eradicate the constraints to the improvement of the private health sector in country. This was disclosed by the NMA President, Dr. Francis Faduyile, during the association’s visit to the CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele this week. According to Faduyile, the lack of access to credit and capital investments has consistently been found to represent one of the main constraints to the improvement of the private health sector in Nigeria. “Access to finance becomes further complicated with high costs of borrowing, short tenure of loans and high currency risks. The conditions of lending virtually exclude assisting young doctors who do not have established clientele and require three to five years to build a practice. “Female entrepreneurial doctors eager to provide services especially to mothers and children find it hard to do so. Doctors in hard-to-reach areas and conflict-afflicted zones are unable to do so due to the prevailing conditions in these areas.  Most of the providers who have established their own businesses have done so through personal and family savings,” Faduyile said. The NMA President therefore urged the CBN to help in the creation of a health bank like the Bank of Agriculture (BOA), which will further increase access to funds to catalyse the needed development and upgrade in health facilities and equipment in Nigeria. “We have also discussed this issue of the health bank with the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari, during our courtesy visit to the State House on  July 16, 2019, and through many other communiqués. Also, there is need for the creation of a health specific window in the following instruments – Micro Small Medium Enterprises Development Fund (MSMEDEF) and the Real Sector Support Facility (RSSF). Until recently, these instruments were not available to the health sector. However, we urge you to create further incentives to catalyse the much-needed investments in the health sector. “We ask that the CBN work with both the Development Bank of Nigeria (DBN) and the Bank of Industry (BOI) to support the demand and supply sides of healthcare financing. Innovative use of first-loss and FOREX guarantees could also be explored to allow the lowering of perceived risk of health-sector specific loan portfolios of commercial banks. Lastly, we ask the CBN to support the setting up of at least three centres of excellence in different specialties in Nigeria. We are glad to note that the AFRIEXIM Bank will be building a world-class cancer centre in Abuja with construction set to commence in the next  few weeks,” he said. The CBN Governor, however, advised the NMA to partner with financial institutions that will interface with it on their behalf, saying there is no way the NMA and the apex bank can have direct interventions. He also noted that some health institutions have followed that approach and have had billions of naira released to them for the upgrade of their facility and equipment. While embracing the idea for the creation of a Health Bank, Emefiele noted that its creation will be in phases, just as Bank of Industry and Bank of Agriculture started with interfacing with banks before they eventually developed into full-fledged banks. He said the creation of a Health Bank will be the end goal.