Delta State has capacity to contribute significantly to the agriculture, natural resources, and rural development sector. This was highlighted by a panel of experts at the just-concluded agribusiness summit in Asaba, the state capital, DANIEL Essiet writes.  Agribusiness has a huge potential to spur development in Delta State. This is because it is critical to economic development as it impacts all three sectors of the economy: agriculture, manufacturing, and services. But the sector requires investments to boost production and meet growing demand from the  rising population. The investment will unlock market growth.This will present huge opportunity for companies and investors in the agri-food industry. It was the spear point at the Delta Agribusiness Finance and Investment summit held in Asaba last week. The Chief of Party and Managing Director of Feed the Future Nigeria Agribusiness Investment Activity, Dr Adam Saffer, has urged investors to take advantage of  the agricultural opportunities in Delta State to  establish businesses that  will promote agricultural commercialisation in the country. He spoke at the Delta Agribusiness Finance and Investment summit in Asaba. Saffer said agriculture has a big potential to contribute significantly to the state’s growth and development, but the sector remains rooted in subsistence farming. He said investors will help to make sure Delta‘s agricultural products and processes are up to international standards. He stated that team from the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) Feed the Future Nigeria Agribusiness Investment Activity was in Delta State to brainstorm on opportunities and solutions to challenges in the agribusiness sector. According to him, the five-year programme aims to strengthen Nigeria’s business-enabling environment to encourage investment in the agriculture sector. Saffer said the Cultivating New Frontiers in Agriculture (CNFA) is the prime implementer of the agribusiness investment activity which is funded by the USAID. According to him, the “Activity is pursuing a unique, robust business-centred strategy to increase the depth, breadth, dynamism and competitiveness of Nigeria’s agribusiness sector” in line with the US and Nigerian governments’ commitment to growing the non-oil-based economy”. He said the activity is designed to create an improved environment by working toward four inter-related objectives of mitigating obstructive policies to make it easier to do business in Nigeria’s agricultural sector; broadening access to finance; promoting investment opportunities in agriculture, and strengthening the capacity of agribusiness to expand and scale up operations.  “As an integral part of these efforts to create an improved enabling environment, the activity works to establish new linkages among a full range of public and private sector partners including agribusinesses, financial institutions, investment groups and business development service providers. “As the project cultivates more robust business conditions, Nigeria’s rural entrepreneurs and MSMEs will gain improved access to the business and financial services they need to grow and to become more efficient, competitive and profitable – benefiting the entire Nigerian economy,” he said. The Delta State Agribusiness Coordinator, Feed the Future Nigeria Agribusiness Investment Activity, Liz Oluwadare who was excited at the large turnout of stakeholders to the event stated that the activity will foster further development of the non-oil sector. Okowa who said he was happy that Delta was among the benefiting states of this development assistance, noted that the projects have enhanced the capacity of the state’s human resources for an effective contribution towards the development of its economy. He said: “We appreciate the US Government for showing considerable magnanimity for various intervention projects. “No doubt, these projects have the ability to achieve and enhance the capacity of our state’s human resources.” The summit, which drew participants from different sectors including financial institutions, was also designed to strengthen the capacity of agribusiness to expand operations. The Feed the Future Nigeria Agribusiness Investment Activity aims to strengthen the enabling environment for agribusiness finance and investment with a focus on the following five key value chains: rice, cowpea, soy, maize and aquaculture. The five-year, $15.7million intervention seeks to sustainably link thousands of Micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and producer organisations with high-performing commercial actors in the seven target states: Benue, Kaduna, Niger, Kebbi, Delta, Ebonyi, and Cross River. The Agribusiness Investment Activity works to expand access to financial services across the value chain through informal, community-based savings plans; formal and informal credit; guarantee programs; insurance offerings, and more.