 The Minister of Police Affairs, Muhammad Maigari Dingyadi, has inaugurated a committee saddled with the responsibility of addressing contentious areas of the Police Academy (Establishment Etc) Bill 2018. This, Dingyadi said, was for a more invigorated and professional policing in Nigeria The committee is expected to prepare and recommend a harmonised document out of the Nigeria Police Academy (Establishment Etc) Bill, 2018 for presentation to the Senate Committee on Police Affairs for further necessary action. The minister, who represented by the Permanent Secretary, Dr. Maurice Nnamdi Mbaeri, said the inauguration of the committee was a result of the retreat organised by the Senate committee on Police Affairs in collaboration with the Policy and Legal Advocacy Centre in Lagos, where contentious issues of the Bill were analysed. The committee, he said, membership was carefully selected to reflect various stakeholders who were free to consult and engage others for all-inclusiveness. The committee’s terms of reference include: a careful study of the entire content of the Nigeria Police Academy (Establishment Etc) Bill 2018; and obtain, collate and examine input from the various stakeholders regarding the Bill. Other terms are to obtain views and inputs, and compare and contrast situations and circumstances from similar security training institutions such as the Nigerian Defence Academy (NDA), Police Staff College (PSC), Jos, Police Anti-Terrorism School, Tai, Rivers State, among others; as well as prepare and recommend a harmonised document out of the Nigeria Police Academy (Establishment Etc) Bill, 2018 for presentation to the Senate Committee on Police Affairs for further necessary action. Senate Committee Chairman on Police Affairs, Senator Haliru Dauda Jika, who urged members of the committee to remain committed to national interest, challenged them to work expeditiously. Jika informed the committee that as soon as they submit their report, a public hearing will be organised in respect of the Bill. The committee chairman and a Commissioner in the Police Service Commission, Tommy Mom, promised to deliver the report within the stipulated time. The 10-man committee members are expected to submit their report in two weeks. 