 LOYALISTS of the All Progressives Congress (APC) National chairman Adams Oshiomhole in Edo State yesterday held a rally in Edo Central senatorial district in a fresh defiance of Governor Godwin Obaseki. Obaseki had threatened to deal with Oshiomhole and any other persons   violating  his ban on political rallies after the APC chairman and his supporters received some defectors from the opposition Peoples Democratic Party  (PDP) at Auchi, Estako West local government area penultimate Saturday. Although security agents barricaded the venue which Oshiomhole supporters had planned to use for yesterday’s rally at Irrua, the party men directed their people to  Opoji in Esan West where they succeeded in holding the rally. The State Government alleged  use of explosives and other dangerous weapons at the rally by “some politicians in parts of the state to cause mayhem, endangering the lives of law-abiding citizens of the state in the process.” Special Adviser to the Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osagie, described “the dastardly act as reprehensible and most condemnable.” At yesterday’s rally at Opoji, some former PDP members led by Prince Tony Omoaghe and former Speaker Bright Omokhodion joined the Oshiomhole APC faction. Speaking at the rally, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu said, “They told us in Benin that this rally would not hold; they said many things would happen but as we were coming, the road was good. “But you know these people are cowards. Early this morning (yesterday) at about 3 am, they went to Chief Inegbeneki’s residence and threw hand bombs. The first one did not detonate, the second one detonated. “If somebody had died, I don’t know what they would have said. “We have been keeping quiet not because we are afraid, but because? we own the house. “Obaseki said he would destroy the Edo APC, but we would not allow him.” Chief Inegbeneki said his residence was attacked with explosives, damaging   a vehicle and part of the building. He said he got the “information with rude shock.” He added:   “Frankly, I am short of words. It must have been politically motivated. After this successful political rally, I am going to Benin to assess the damage.” He warned that “For those drumming music of war they should be prepared to dance to the music.” Inegbeneki asked President Muhammadu Buhari to rescue the people from the hands of Obaseki and his deputy, as “Edo is under siege.” Edo govt condemns political violence, use of explosives, other dangerous weapons Special Adviser to   Governor Obaseki on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osagie, said in a statement after the rally that explosives and other dangerous weapons were used “at the weekend by some politicians in parts of the state to cause mayhem, endangering the lives of law-abiding citizens of the state in the process.” He said: “It has come to our notice that explosives and other dangerous weapons were used by some politicians in parts of the state to cause mayhem, endangering the lives of law-abiding citizens of the state in the process. 