Bimbo Osho, who is currently the Managing Director of Evergreen Music Company Limited, took over from her dad, the founder, out of passion for music and creativity. In this interview with DUPE AYINLA-OLASUNKANMI, she speaks on what made her take up the challenging work of collecting old songs, meeting with veteran musicians, protecting their works and managing their careers, among other issues. Excerpts: Tell us how you came about Evergreen Music Company? What I can say is that the chairman who is my dad, at the age of 12, started making collections. He is now 72. You can imagine the kinds of collections he has because he is equally as old as those records. If I start collecting now, I will be collecting records of younger generations. Looking at that, the collections started many years ago, and these make up Evergreen Music Company which has the works of artistes as far as 1914. Can you tell us some of the works you have in your collections? We have the works of Adeolu Akinsanya, Victor Olaiya who just passed on some weeks ago, Tunde Nightingale and others. Most of these artistes have gone to the world beyond, but we still have strong relationships with their families. We pay royalties to them. And we still put their works together, not just for business sake, but for posterity, so that people can have access to these works. Do you pay royalties to these late artistes’ families till date? We run a company that deals with contracts. You collect people’s works; it is right to pay for the hard work they have done in the past. The arrangement we have made with families is for royalties to be paid. We call them estate; just like we did with Fela. We are the only one in Nigeria to produce the works of Fela Kuti, and we pay royalties to the estate. Beyond the fact that we are trying to produce their works and still make them available, there is also an arrangement to pay royalties for using those works. That is because the works are used for so many things; that is why we sign agreements with them. We could use their works for publicity to make people aware of their existence, promotions and for students to understand some historical facts about Nigeria. We are close to these families; it is not just about business. How did you become the CEO after your father retired? As a little girl, I am very creative. I have other siblings. We all have different passions. Beyond music, I love things that have to do with creativity. I do music, printing and branding; anything that has to do with creativity, you can always find me there. So music came to me when I was growing, listening to music. I love different kinds of music; I am not fixed into any particular type of music. I learnt a lot of things from music which have to do with life. I didn’t have to go to school to learn all those things and the reality of life. If you really want to know how people are in this life, you need to listen to all these songs. If you have five to six musicians talking about a particular thing, they cannot all be wrong. So, this music is like teaching. Also when I was in my final year in UI (University of Ibadan) doing my project, I was able to do research on highlife music in Nigeria. That really got me into the business and I started understanding the strong passion my dad exhibited when he plays these records and keeps them. Tell us what has kept you going? One thing about this job is if you do not have passion for music, you cannot do it. It has to come naturally, including talking to the artistes, the way they feel; you cannot pretend about it. I am just fortunate to pick up from where he stopped. How would you describe your time with the late Victor Olaiya? I met him when I was quite young. I used to go to the stadium to watch him play, but my main relationship with him was when I was doing my research in school like I mentioned earlier in 2004. I interviewed a whole lot of them; I had to travel to meet Victor Uwaifo; I interviewed the band members of most of the highlife musicians and a few of them that were living then. My contact with Victor Olaiya was when I had a live coverage interview with him. I should be in my 20s then. I was so passionate about music. Their songs were not for someone of my age, but I learnt a lot. Someone like Victor Olaiya sang about realities and other issues. And if you get to ask them, it is about experiences they have learnt from the fans. There was something about him when you talk about highlife in Nigeria. If I was doing a project and I did not interview him, it could not have been complete. Someone like Bobby Benson, I would have loved to interview him, but he was late. But I still went to do a coverage on his works, hotel and others. I saw him as someone that was very simple, accessible and very accommodating. And that is why I keep saying that if any musician wants to go far, just make yourself accessible. It can be difficult, but just try to. He was an organised person, his band is extremely organised and he was also a giver. He has left Stadium Hotel for people to continue. That is where the like of Shina Peters, Obesere and so on got their fame. So what happens to his works? We have seen a lot of musicians pass on and their legacies gone with them. When you look at Felabration and someone like Yeni Kuti, you can see that Fela did not just die, but left behind children that are able to fit into his line. That is a fantastic legacy; the children have carried on. Well for Victor Olaiya, Baba just left us. The children and the family should be able to learn from others how they manage the empires left behind by their people. What Olaiya left behind is an empire. He is one of the few people that took highlife to the peak in Nigeria and Ghana because he had several collaborations. His son, Bayode, plays at Stadium too, so if the children can come together and solidify, I am sure they will be able to take the man’s business to another level. More so, he was a very decent and disciplined man. So when you look at that and he does not have any scandal over the years before his demise, then they will understand that he needs to be protected and his heritage needs to be taken from where he stopped, Stadium,  his songs, empire and business. Stadium Hotel, by now as far as I am concerned, should be like a tourist centre where his works, pictures and instruments should be displayed for people to come and be seen. Let’s get a little personal now. Do you have a social life? I call myself an introvert/extrovert person. It means someone that can be introvert and extrovert. What social life means to me is to give fun and happiness to others. I do not need to be involved in it, but to see people have fun and enjoy it. That is why I have a company called ‘Amo ilu du’. It is to give fun to people and that even makes me happy. I, myself, as an individual might not really crave for fun. And that to me is what I call a social life. To put event together, see people come together and enjoy themselves. Tell us about growing up? It was fun; we had everything going on well for us. We had a father and mother that were the best. We were also directed in the right way, and had people who cautioned us when we did things that were wrong. And over the years, it is one of the things that keep us going today and all these also apply to my siblings. We also grew up in a very sound Christian background; my dad was one of the founders of CAC. So that help shaped our lives. And the fact that you are in entertainment does not take out that part of your religious activities and growth away from you. Growing up was fun and we have also seen life at the growing up of our life. Do you feel intimidated being a lady in this line? I’m a very private person, not the yao yao type. I am always organised in my thought and approach. To some extent, I am very humble, and the course I did in school also has helped me to understand human nature. When you see people that want to be domineering, there are ways you can deal with them and ask questions. But in this field, I have not seen any intimidation, and I don’t think I am going to see. Why do you say so? Everybody is in their line. And the kind of thing I do, it is not everyone that does it. I am into a kind of preservation. Most men you will see are either promoters or marketers. But I am into something that is deeper; it involves everything. And I am not a musician; they are the ones that always have problems with themselves. I am into something that is very serious and that will affect everyone whether you are a student or lecturer; it is like an institution, an empire by itself. Looking at that, rather that happening, they respect me more for what I do and encourage me to do better. Do you have plans lined up for the late Victor Olaiya’s funeral? Yes, the last time we had a meeting with the family, they made it known that everything would take place after the lent period. So, we’re already in talks with them. But as the company managing his works before he passed on, what do you want to do? We had what we called the last supper for Baba Olaiya. That was when he celebrated 50 years on stage. We didn’t even envisage that soon he would be leaving us. It is mandatory that the family does what is right before we come in and say as a society we have our last respects for him. We are definitely going to have something big for him. We are just waiting for the family to do theirs first, which is the norm in the Yoruba setting or belief.