The United States of America (US) Embassy in Nigeria has described as false a story alleging that the embassy denied entry visa to the Presiding Bishop of Living Faith Bible Church Worldwide, Bishop David Oyedepo. It said the viral news was ‘FalseNews Alert.’ It further said: “Be advised, the reports making the rounds about a visa being denied to Nigerian Bishop Oyedepo are false. If you have seen this manufactured item in the media, help defeat this misinformation by communicating to everyone that it is completely false.” When The Nation newspaper called the Public Affairs section of the embassy, a staff at the embassy still referred the paper to the above information on the embassy’s verified Facebook account. Also, the Chairman of the Editorial and Media Board Unit of the Winner’s Chapel International, Prof. Sherrif Folarin, debunked the reports that Bishop David Oyedepo was denied entry visa to the United States on Thursday, January 30, 2020. In a statement released and obtained by The Nation, the church stated that Bishop David Oyedepo renewed his visa, last year, without any initial denial or drama, or scene. The statement stated: “Bishop was not at the embassy or consulate Thursday or even anytime this year. Bishop has been in Canaanland all this week. The last time he applied for visa, which was last year, he was issued without delay”. “We wish to put it on record and categorically submit that this piece of information is not true. At no time was the Bishop denied visa, nor did he create a scene at the US consulate in Lagos “We have been in touch with the US Embassy and they are as surprised as we are about this fake news which some media houses decided to spread.” The church urged the populace to disregard the rumour and urged the Nigerian media to toe the line of due diligence before rushing to publish fake news. The statement further affirmed that Bishop Oyedepo is a good friend of the US government and has a very good relationship with US Embassy and Consulate in Nigeria.