Musa Odoshimokhe The National Inter-Faith and Religious Organisations for Peace (NIFROP) has canvassed for support for military to defeat insurgency. The body embarked on campaign of love between Christians and Muslims. In a communique after it 21- day fasting in Abuja, leaders of the group Bishop Prince Madaki, Bishop Lawrence Ngene, Sheik Ahmad Jiddah Umar and Sheik Ja,afaru Kantoma, said the course it took was divine and must be followed. According to the clerics, the campaign is geared towards frustrating the agents of destabilisation using Boko Haram to cause religion war in the country. The group said terrorists have nothing to do with Christianity or Islam, hence Nigerians must be enlightened about its operations NIFROP advised every cleric in the country to join the campaign, going all out to preach the gospel of love and unity of Nigeria. “During the 21 day prayer and fasting programme religious faithful prayed and fasted fervently for God’s intervention in the crisis in North-East Nigeria and especially Borno State that has witnessed a resurgence of the activities of the Boko Haram terrorist group. “That the efforts of President Muhammadu Buhari have seen to the defeat Boko Haram and the recent acts of insecurity in Borno State is being politically motivated by enemies of the country. “That the recent activities of bandits and kidnappers in some parts of the north are the handiwork of evil men and women and desperate politicians who find it difficult to give up their inordinate ambitions after a convincing loss at the polls. “The recent calls for the sack of the hardworking and patriotic service chiefs in the country are the handiwork of coup plotters and politicians desperate to destabilize the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari due to his stance on leading Nigeria with the fear of God. “That those that have looted the commonwealth of Nigeria in times past are angry to reverse the gains made in the war against insurgency so that they can gain control of the country through the back door. ” The group said those who booed the President during his visit to Borno State were mischievous, adding that government would not be deterred. “That the act of booing President Muhammadu Buhari during his recent visit to Borno state is highly condemnable and the handiwork of the political leadership in Borno State that are not happy with the efforts of the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari in bringing to an end the activities of the Boko Haram group in North East. “That a strong message should be sent out to all and sundry that Boko Haram, kidnappers, bandits, and all terrorists’ criminal groups have nothing to do with Christianity or Islam and should be ignored. “