Oziegbe Okoeki  Lagos State government on Wednesday inducted 1017 new officers into the Lagos State Transport Management Authority (LASTMA) to enhance traffic management in the State. Speaking at the passing out parade at LASTMA headquarters, Oshodi, the Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu tasked the officers to be diligent and shun corruption. The Governor who adorned the LASTMA uniforms in company of his Deputy, Dr Obafemi Hamzat said, “Traffic in Lagos is over 10 times in comparison to national average.” While congratulating the inductees to have been privileged to be recruited, Sanwo-Olu urged them to see their recruitment as an opportunity to serve. “Our administration will continue to support you. We will do more to support you. Your induction is to ease movement of people and goods. “We have zero tolerance on corruption or financial inducement, harassment of citizens will be frowned at, let’s be civil, firm and decisive,” the Governor said. Commissioner for Transportation, Mr Frederic Oladeinde told the new officers that “your employment as officers of LASTMA demonstrates the commitment of the governor to attend to traffic issues in the State.” Oladeinde explained that “transportation impacts directly on any functional economy. On your new job, you must show commitment, dedication and discipline. “There is no place for corruption, I urge you to tread carefully,” he said. In his welcome address, LASTMA General Manager, Mr Olajide Oduyoye disclosed that the governor had been exceptional as it was the first time a sitting governor would attend any induction ceremony of the organization, he also advised the inductees not to allow temptation to ruin their career. “Today marks a new dawn, before you were wearing black and white. A lot of people didn’t accord you respect but today you are wearing the uniform. “The uniform is an authority, with the authority comes a big responsibility, the job is not a small job, we expect you to do extra and be magical. “All we asking you is to present yourselves accordingly for you to be respected. “I want to plead with you not to allow temptation in your work, don’t allow temptation to wane your career,” Oduyoye charged the new inductees.