By Adekunle Yusuf  The Chief Executive Officer Eko Hospital, Dr. Ademolu Owoyele, has called for more awareness   on cancer, saying this will lead to early detection of cases and better treatment outcomes. He stated this to reporters during a walk in Lagos targeted towards enlightening the public about cancer and benefits of regular medical tests. The walk was organised by the new management of EKOCORP Plc, owners of Eko Hospitals, in solidarity with other countries to mark the International Cancer Day 2020, a day set aside to support people battling with cancer and educate the public about the diseases and benefits of early screening to enable early detection of cases. As part of its contribution towards lessening the cancer burden in the country, Owoyele said his hospital has committed itself to paying up to 25 per cent of any form of cancer treatment ranging from cancer surgery to chemotherapy to radiotherapy to vaccination. He disclosed further that the cancer centre at the Eko Hospitals has begun the 25 per cent discount cancer programme, which runs from February 1 and ends on February 29, stating that the programme also targets over 5000 women for free screening. “The main objective of the programme is to increase the awareness of cancer and to increase the number of people that can screen themselves and they can detect it early.  And after detection, the hospital is ready to pay 25 per cent of the hospital bill for every form of treatment for cancer within that period. All inspections of treatment, we are going to be doing that, from free screening to 25 per cent off treatment bill, to reduce the burden of cancer in Nigeria and West Africa. “To reduce the burden of cancer in the world, it is always holistic; it’s not just about treating cancer, performing surgery. It begins with raising awareness, sensitising people for them to actually know that they have to screen themselves, because the best way to actually treat cancer is through early detection. Once you detect it early, then you can actually treat it,” Owoyele said. On the rising burden of cancer, Eko Hospital’s Chief Strategy and Business Development Officer, Dr. Kunle Megbuwawon, described cancer as a scourge to humanity. He stressed that Nigerians don’t have to wait till someone has cancer before they start taking care of it, saying that is why “we are proclaiming the concept of early detection, health screening so that we can prevent people from developing or coming down with cancer”.