At 30, Mr Mike Okoye was adjudged the youngest state commissioner nationwide,  following his appointment as the Anambra State Commissioner for Budget and Planning in June 2016, under Governor Willie Obiano. Now at 33, Okoye is still the  Commissioner for Budget and Planning. Besides, he was one of the only 10 alumni of Atlantic Hall School bestowed with a ‘Distinguished Personality’ award as the school wrapped up activities for its 30th Anniversary last week. In this interview with HALIMA BALOGUN AND AJIFOWOWE OMOTOLABI, Okoye tells  youths not to underestimate their abilities, but rather challenge their future now.  Could you introduce yourself? I am Mark Okoye, alumnus of Atlantic Hall School Class 2003. I am also the Commissioner for Budget and Planning in Anambra State. At 30, you were the youngest government appointee in Nigeria. Did you buy your way through? I never did. It’s just by dint of hardwork, passion and sacrifice. At present, I’m 33 though. Interestingly, however, I’ve spent more than eight years in government. I got into government at 25 when I was working as an investment banker in Lagos. So, how did your sojourn into politics begin? It’s about my passion! Ahead of my appointment, I had always yearned for a job that was much more impactful and fulfilling.  So, through my company, I started to support different states to help them raise money through the capital market. That was where I got the passion to serve.  I then started writing proposals to state governors and commissioners . So when did you get the break? I had a turning point when I met Donald Duke (former governor of Cross Rivers) who introduced me to my then governor, Mr Peter Obi and insisted that he (Obi) should hire me. So during my first meeting with him, you know politicians’ approach to things. He had a brief chat with me. He asked me a few questions and directed me to send him my CV whenever I got to Lagos later. I then said “No Sir. I’m a young man and know what I want because I want to serve.  I have my CV right here with me’. I then handed over my CV to him. He first looked at me, then my CV and said no problem. So he started me off as a Senior Special Assistant on Investment. I officially started work in June 2012. So I worked with him during the last two years of his administration, helping him to drive some investments into the state. And why did you not go with Obi when his tenure eventually expired? The work I did for him (Obi) got me another appointment in the next government. I was given the task to create the Anambra Investment Promotion Agency which I, alongside a few colleagues, set up. Eventually, I ended up as the agency’s pioneer executive director.  Through that office, the state was able to attract over $400 million in investment from domestic investors in Nigerians who are from the state and other parts of the country. Through that avenue, we were also able to create thousands of jobs in the state. A popular saying goes thus: ’’The reward for hardwork is more work’’. I guess that experience propelled the government to now reappoint me as the Commissioner for Budget and Planning. I was 30 at the time and the youngest commissioner nationwide. Incidentally, I was made the commissioner on my birthday, which was on June 15, 2016. At 30, were you not scared of coping with bigger task of such office? I wasn’t! As soon as I assumed duty, my primary vision was to drive reforms in that ministry.  I was also trying to create the opportunities for young people, so I joined the then Not-Too-Young-To-Run campaign. So, through that agitation, we succeeded in bringing down the minimum age for commissioner to between 20 to 25 years. Today, I’m particularly glad that in Nigeria, we now have young individuals between 20 and 25 holding appointments as commissioners nationwide. How would you use your experience to inspire youths to a better Nigeria? I think it’s one thing to complain which is what I used to do. I once complained a lot about bad governance, inefficiency and what have you. The truth is: when you complain and complain, you end up being an armchair critic.  I will recommend my colleagues within the youth segment that it’s about time they made the bold step.  If you want to fix Nigeria, get involved in the process either as an electorate or an aspiring political office holder who desires a positive change in Nigeria. If we continue to have in power majority of people who don’t have a better vision for the country, we will not get better results.  Nigeria needs young people with bright and innovative ideas and who  are also willing to make sacrifices to better the lot of our country. Do you see a bright future for Nigeria? I am an  optimist. I believe in the future of Nigeria but sometimes I think we probably have to take a few steps back in order to make a monumental step forward.  So I think youths can come together to set Nigeria on the right path again. The youths can take a cue from what their counterparts in East and North Africa have been able to do over the last five years.  They organised themselves into a coalition and demanded for a better government Rather than spending so much time on social media. We have about 63 million youths in Nigeria which is a sizeable figure.  We can all put heads together and demand a better Nigeria.