By Emmanuel Oladesu  Lagos State All Progressives Congress (APC) Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC) member Alhaji Akanni Seriki-Bamu has urged Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to sustain the tempo of performance. The party elder hailed the achievements of the governor across the sectors, noting that Lagosians did not vote for him in vain. He said party leaders across the three senatorial districts and five divisions of Lagos State were impressed with the conversion of the state into a huge construction site by the governor. He described Sanwo-Olu as a listening governor, stressing that his programmes were dictated by need analysis and legitimate expectation of Lagosians. The chieftain said the onus is on the 57 council chairmen to comment the governor’s feats at the grassroots. Seriki, leader of the party in Epe Division, said party chieftains have endorsed the policies and programmes of the administration geared towards transformation of the Centre of Excellence. He, however, advised the governor to beware of people he described as “sychopants in politics” and dubious elements, who are interested in playing to the gallery. Seriki, who spoke with reporters in Lagos, noted that “the governor has started well and he is on course,” urging him to always live to expectation.  He said: “Our governor is doing us proud and we endorse his initiatives, policies and programmes. He is implementing the manifestos of our progressive political party. He is a listening governor. He should continue to listen to party leaders, elders and members.” To Seriki, Sanwo-Olu is carrying party stakeholders along, adding that “there is no way he can go astray.” He said party members from Epe are solidly behind the administration because he was a product of their endorsement at the poll. Seriki stressed: “Epe is hundred percent behind the governor and it is the right thing to do. He has not let us down. He is performing.” The chieftain urged the governor to complete the projects his predecessor started in Epe. He recalled that despite the misbehaviour of certain elements in the division in last year’s elections, APC still carried the day. Seriki complained that certain defectors have started looming large and spoiling for relevance in the division at the expense of loyal party members who are struggling. He said: “We are weary of those who misled previous governors and incited them against the party leadership.” 