From Osagie Otabor, Benin  A governorship aspirant of the All Progressives Congress, Engr. Chris Ogiemwonyi, has said that he and three other aspirants have an accord to support one ticket. Ogiemwonyi listed other aspirants that have keyed into the accord to unseat Governor Godwin Obaseki to include Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, Dr. Pius Odubu and General Charles Airhiavbere. Speaking to reporters in Benin City, Ogiemwonyi said they have agreed to work together, accept and support whoever emerges as the APC candidate. Ogiemwonyi, who served as Minister of State for Works under former President Goodluck Jonathan, said the four of them have the desire to serve and not for money as they have individually excelled in their chosen careers. According to him, “Before now, we have an accord. Myself, Odubu and Airhiavbere met in Abuja and took a decision that the best option is to work together as a team and procure one ticket. We will all support that candidate.  We were lucky Odubu got something and he grabbed it. Before that process came to a conclusion, Pastor Ize-Iyamu came to meet us and we told him about the process. I hear we have two other aspirants. Four of us have agreed to work together. “There is nothing we cannot share. If you see the four of us coming now. God has been grateful to each of us. It is just the need to serve our people. Ize-Iyamu was a former Secretary to government, Odubu was a former Deputy Governor, Airhiavbere was a former pay master of the Nigerian Army, I was public servant so we are all okay. We will sustain that accord.: Engr. Ogiewonyi, stated that the series of recent violent attacks on people’s homes would scare away investors from the state. He called on Governor Obaseki to commence probe on the attacks and abolish the Wabaizighan security outfit which he described as repressive and anti-people. Ogiemwonyi listed investment in security, poverty eradication through provision of employment, preventive healthcare, mechanised agriculture, provision of social amenities to address rural-urban migration, provision of model schools with boarding facilities, upgrading of the Solid minerals sector and bringing the physically challenged into government operations as his areas of priority.