Multiple award-winning ace comedian, I Go Dye born Francis Agoda has announced the second edition of his Project “Sorting Out Raw Talent” (SORT) under his Francis Agoda Path of Honour (FAPOH)’s initiative which was designed to create social support, advance youths resourcefulness, civic responsibility, promote peace, acknowledge leadership qualities, promote artistic works and curb youths’ restiveness. According to the humour merchant and social crusader if top entertainers can do something to empower youths in their immediate locations, the rate of crime and criminality will reduce drastically. “We can’t be really fulfilled, if our talents, knowledge and positions in life does not positively inspire anyone or give them reasons to smile,” he said while unveiling plans for the second edition of the project. I Go Dye primarily launched project “SORT” last year to address youth restiveness in Delta State and has vowed to continue same this year. Only three local governments witnessed the project last year, namely; Warri, Agbor and Asaba. Each winner went home with the sum of 500 thousand naira and the grand finale was held at the Grand Hotel Asaba with the Executive Governor of Delta State, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa in attendance. However, he revealed that project ‘SORT’ 2020 will be expanded to include more local government areas of Delta State as against Warri, Agbor and Asaba it started with last year. He added that auditions will commence on March 12, 2020 in Ughelli Glass House Event Centre. Hear him: “ We at FAPOH are proud to have a State government that is proactive and we shall continue to leverage on this to create employment programs for more youths. At this time of our lives, we are all indebted to our immediate environment; let’s continue to support the growth of our youths. I Go Dye also noted that entertainment remains a strong medium to influence the character of the larger society, if only government institutions can formulate policies in this regard to engender development and improve quality of life. “Winners at the auditions from the different local councils of Delta State will go home with 500 thousand naira cash, which also qualifies them for the grand finale. Once again, a brand new car will be won with N2 million as star prize,” he added.