On Friday morning, after the announcement of the discovery of corona virus in Lagos state, some broadcast messages were shared on WhatsApp claiming China has declared the situation out of control in the fight against the coronavirus and requested the WHO to declare a state of emergency on the country. Claim – A WhatsApp message going round reads: “Urgent – China declares the situation out of control in the fight against the corona virus, and demands the World Health Organization to declare a state of emergency in the country”. Conclusion – False. At no point did China declare the coronavirus situation out of control. Report – According to the Asian Review, despite the rise of those affected by coronavirus, the government of China has not declared the situation to fight the disease out of control. Neither has the government called on WHO to declare a state of emergency on the corona virus. On 30th January 2020, after a meeting of the emerging committee in the coronavirus in Geneva, Switzerland declared the spread of the coronavirus a global health emergency. According to the WHO Director-General, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the reason for the declaration was to contain potential of the virus to spread to countries with weaker health systems and not yet prepared to deal with the virus. He stated that the declaration is not because of what is happening in China but because of what is happening in other countries. “Let me be clear: this declaration is not a vote of no confidence in China. On the contrary, WHO continues to have confidence in China’s capacity to control the outbreak,” he stressed. Emerging facts have also revealed that there are more cases being reported outside China than inside China. Out of Control and State of Emergency Out of Control, according to Dictionary.com, is when a situation gets out of hand or can no longer be managed According to the Maxmillian dictionary, if something is out of control, people are not able to limit it or make it do what they want it to do. While State of Emergency, according to Cambridge Dictionary, means a temporary system of rules to deal with an extremely dangerous or difficult situation. State of Emergency is a situation in which a government is empowered to perform actions or impose policies that it would normally not be permitted to undertake.