As the industry grows and as the addition of a new product and opening of transfer window draw near, among other development, stakeholders within and outside the industry believe the time to know the status and ranking of each PFA is now. In this report, Omobola Tolu-Kusimo reveals the top five and bottom five PFAs.  The ranking of Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) have been done behind closed doors since the commencement of the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) by the regulator, the National Pension Commission (PenCom) and pension managers, the PFAs. Findings show that the reason it’s been done privately is because of the fragile nature of the pension fund and industry. The regulator, it was learnt, also fears unhealthy competition among operators. But as the industry grows with addition of new product like micro pension and the transfer window that would enable contributors to move their pension account from one PFA to another, among other developments, it appears that it will no longer be ‘business as usual’. Stakeholders within and outside the industry believe the time to know the status of each PFA is now.  The Nation Findings Investigation by The Nation shows that the top three PFAs, going by the Retirement Savings Account (RSA) or pension contributors count under their management, are Stanbic IBTC Pension Managers with 1,718,352 contributors, Arm Pension Managers 743,728 contributors; and Trustfund 717,112. Stanbic has the largest market share of 29.5 per cent ARM and Trustfund has 10.1 per cent market share each. This was shown in an industry report on membership as at December 2018. In the report, Sigma Pension has 698,227 contributors while Premium Pension has 658,227, forming the top 5. They both have eight per cent and 7.6 per cent market share respectively. However, Leadway Pensure is sixth PFA with 584,702 contributors and 5.2 per cent market share, FCMB Pension is seventh with 405,998 contributors and 4.3 per cent share; Pensions Alliance is eight with 523,432 contributors and four per cent share and 3.5 share; while Nigeria Police PFA Ltd is tenth with 269,479 and 2.7 per cent share. Meanwhile, the PFAs that form the bottom 10 are Investment One Pension with 74,966 contributors and 0.6 market share; Apt Pension 127,871 with 1.2 per cent share; Veritas Pensions 132,394 contributors with 1.3 per cent share; Fidelity Pensions 229,358 and 1.4 per cent share; NLPC Pension with 302,829 and 1.4 per cent share; and Oak Pensions with 197,140 contributors and 1.5 per cent share. Besides, the total number of contributors in the period under review are 8,417,234.  PenCom ranking report Before now, the regulator only expose rankings to the public without disclosing the companies’ identities. In PenCom’s most recent quarter report, “Second Quarter Summary Report 2019”, the commission stated that the total pension contributions stood at N9.3 trillion as at July, 2019. As at the last report on the fund in December 2019, total pension fund has grown to N10.22 trillion. In a part of the summary report titled: “Ranking of PFAs by the Amount of Contributions Received”, the commission said the ranking of PFAs by total pension contributions received into the pension fund indicates that the top 5 ranked PFAs received 65.97 percent of the total contributions as at the end of the second quarter of 2019. The commission further disclosed that the top 10 ranked PFAs accounted for 88.08 percent of the total contributions. The bottom five and 10 PFAs on the other hand received N105.11 billion and N518.33 billion pension contributions, representing 1.84 percent and 9.06 percent of the total contributions as at the end of the quarter under review. In another part titled, “Ranking of PFAs by Asset Size as at June, 2019”, PenCom stated that “A review of PFAs’ ranking by size of assets under their management showed that the top three and five PFAs accounted for more than half of the total RSA assets at 54.07 and 66.77 percent. “The top 10 PFAs had 87.76 percent of the total RSA assets under their management while the bottom ten PFAs accounted for 9.22 percent of the RSA assets under management at the end of the reporting period.” The Commission further stated that the ranking of PFAs by number of registered contributors showed a redistribution of the market share across the various groups. During the quarter, the market shares of the bottom three, five and ten PFAs slightly declined due to transfers to the newly licensed Nigerian University Pension Management Company (NUPEMCO) PFA. “The market shares of the top three, five and ten also slightly dipped as at end of the quarter under review. The shares of the bottom five and ten PFAs decreased from 5.34 and 18.07 percent in the first quarter of 2019 to 3.88 and 14.98 percent respectively as at the end of the reporting period. Similarly, the market shares of top five and ten PFAs dropped from 53.57 and 78.81 percent in the previous quarter to 53.41 and 78.59 percent respectively as at the end of second quarter. “Similarly, the share of the top three PFAs had reduced from 37.64 percent as at first quarter, 2019 to 37.60 percent as at second quarter, 2019. The share of the bottom three PFAs decreased from 2.33 percent to 1.46 percent during the same period.  Also, 14 of the PFAs with 66.67 percent share had each registered less than 500,000 RSAs while the remaining seven PFAs with 33.33 percent share had registered more than 500,000 RSAs each.  What you need to know about PFAs There are 22 licensed PFAs in the country. The CPS requires pension funds to be privately managed exclusively by licensed PFA. The main functions of the PFA are to open Retirement Savings Account (RSA) for employees; invest and manage pension fund assets; payment of retirement benefits and accounting for all transactions relating to the pension funds under their management. PenCom considers applications for license to operate as a PFA from entities that fulfil the requirements as enshrined in Section 60 of the PRA 2014. Prior to the issuance of an operating license, the PFA must be a limited liability company whose sole object is the management of pension fund assets. The PFA must also satisfy the Commission that it has the professional capacity to manage pension funds and administer retirement benefits.   Poor services Some PFAs render poor service to clients. They have poor website, are not responsive to client’s complaints, do not pay benefits on time, do not send statements of accounts and other necessary notifications to their clients, among others A major stakeholder who spoke on condition of anonymity said the commission need to get tougher with erring operators. He said some PFAs deliberately hold back on information they should pass across to contributors and retirees, citing update on market fund price as one of the major information they withhold. He stated that this is worrisome to some other PFAs who are following the regulatory assessment requirement which mandates you to update your website every day, noting that by so doing, all PFAs are updated with the market information. He said: “There is a circular by PenCom which states that all PFAs must update their website every day. But there are some PFAs who withhold information. For instance, if their market fund price is going down and they are losing money, they will just keep quiet and not update their fund price. But when it is going up, they will make all the noise. This is not how it is supposed to be. “The regulator also has a template of what is expected to be on PFAs website daily. It states what you must provide in term of content but a lot of PFAs don’t do it. The regulator should make them to do the right thing. Some PFAs also do not pay benefits on time, do not send statements of accounts and other necessary notifications to their clients.” Another pension operator, on his part, said ranking is by market share, which does not necessarily translate to good return. “A company with a small RSA count can make better returns than most those with the high count. This is because with less funds you have less exposure to some instruments. For instance, if we have to buy shares we buy profitable shares and not too much of it,” he added.  Knowing a good PFA As a worker either as civil servant or private sector employee, the Pension Reform Act (PRA) 2004, repealed by PRA 2014, mandates that you set aside certain sum called pension which you will fall back upon when you retire, hence the need to save your funds with a good PFA that will make available your money when you retire. Although PenCom is working with all the PFAs to ensure the funds are safe and the company comply with the regulations as laid out in the Act, there is need for contributors to know PFAs that offer the best Return on Investment (ROI) and best customer service, especially as the commission prepares to open the transfer window. An operator who also spoke under the condition of anonymity said the most important thing is the performance of the funds that the PFA manages, particularly in terms of ROI. “The easiest way to do that is to look at the price that the PFA publishes, so you can take the price at two points in time to determine the rate. The reason I say this is that the way the industry has been set up, you can actually separate the profitability of the fund manager as a company, from the performance of the company as a fund manager. “If you want to look at performance of the company, it’s the same way you will look at any other company, profit and loss, you may want to have an idea of how efficient they are, look at return on equity and you can compare with competitors in the same industry. “The other thing you can do is look at how much of their income is from the whole business of funding. So, you want to look at the split between management fees and investment income,” he said.  The future pension industry landscape According to pricewaterhousecoopers, the introduction of a multi-fund structure regime allowing the investment of pension funds based on contributor’s risk and age profile are will shape the future of the pension industry. Pricewaterhousecoopers in a report also said the opening of the transfer window allowing contributors to move their RSA accounts between PFAs and the introduction of biometric technology to register contributors and update current records will play significant roles. The report read: “Other developments are the creation of shared service centres to handle back office operations; Introduction of a multi-pillar pension scheme which would include the mandatory CPS, supplementary industry-wide pension schemes, voluntary pension schemes and additional corporate pension schemes for independent professionals such as medical specialists; Fierce competition with brand quality, innovation and quality service delivery being critical for the survival of most PFAs. “Mergers and acquisitions with many foreign players seeking to invest in the industry; The development of guidelines by the regulator on the creation of the Pension Protection Fund which would either adopt or create a Pension Protection Fund Manager ; Introduction of a social welfare element in the current pension regime; Trade unions clamouring for pension contributor protection laws; Advent of personalised pension advisory services, a precursor of Defined Ambition  Pension Schemes; and Retirement savings used as equity for mortgages will all shape the industry,” the report stated.  