Pollution of the popular Epie Creek in Bayelsa State has raised concern among residents especially persons living in Ogbia and Yenagoa local government areas of the state. A study by the Environmental Rights Action (ERA) and Friends of the Earth (FOE) uncovered massive crude oil slick floating on top of the water across the length of the creek. The report, which was signed by Akpotu Ziworitin and Alagoa Morris visited some of the heavily impacted communities such as Otuasega, Imiringi and Emeyal 2 in Ogbia and traced the cause of the incident to the activities of persons engaged in illegal bunkering and illegal refining of crude oil. The report said security agencies were aware of the actions leading to the pollution of Kolo Creek and called on responsible agencies and the government to stop further degradation of the creek. It said: “On 1st February, 2020 when ERA/FoEN and the Bayelsa State leadership of the Civil Liberties Organisation (CLO) embarked on a field monitoring exercise to Imiringi, a military officer attached to Shell’s Kolo Creek Logistic Base also confirmed this. “During a brief interaction with him, the military officer observed that the media were erroneously reporting the source of activities leading to crude oil pollution on the Kolo Creek. From his accent, it appeared he was from the Northern part of Nigeria. “According to him, some local refining activities are taking place in a community in Ahoada West local government area of Rivers State; sharing boundary with Bayelsa State. He made it clear that the site of the local refinery also referred to locally as ‘Kpofire’ could be sighted right from the Okarki-Kolo-Brass Federal Road. “Not only did the military officer acknowledged that they were aware, he went further to state that the pollution has degraded the Kolo Creek; giving two reasons for saying so. Firstly, he said he used to fetch water from the Kolo Creek to water some apples he planted which were growing well. “But, since Crude oil spread on the Kolo Creek and he used water from the creek to water his plants; the plants started dying. He also said some of his colleagues downstream used to fish with hooks and they were catching fish before the Creek had crude oil spreading and they could not catch fish anymore. He even showed the ERA/CLO team some photos of the polluted Creek on his phone and volunteered to forward some to ERA/FoEN same day”. ERA in the report said all the people suffering the impact of the pollution pleaded with the government to come to their aide. The report said: “Of grave concern is the fact the environment where the alleged activities of local refining going on is not deep in the creeks of Bayelsa State; it is within an inland Kolo creek environment and very close to the state capital where all the security agencies have their state operational head offices. “Southern Ijaw local government which has several creeks and rivers used to be the headquarters of local refinery activities about eight years ago. For about four years now, all such sites have been stopped in Southern Ijaw through the efforts of Darlon Security and Guard Nigeria Ltd popularly known as Oil and Gas Task Force and effective collaboration with security agencies. The success story in Southern Ijaw needs to be replicated. “The fears of community leaders, that anyone who tries to stand against the local refining operation would be attacked are well understood. And, that could be the only reason the crude oil pollution of Kolo Creek has lasted this long; as locals are afraid of being identified and killed by operators of the kpofire business. “Finally, that the surface of the water on the Kolo Creek appears relatively clean in downstream communities doesn’t mean they are not affected; as the water soluble component of the crude oil and which is more dangerous has impacted all line communities”. ERA appealed to the Bayelsa State Government to as a matter of urgency ensure the protection of lives and property of all affected by the activities of those engaged in the environmentally unfriendly acts leading to the large scale pollution of Kolo Creek. It asked security agencies, especially the Department of State Services (DSS), the Joint Task Force (JTF), Operation Delta Safe (ODS), the Nigeria Police and Nigeria Security and Civil Defense (NSCDC) should rise to the occasion and deal with the issues. The report said: “The oil industry regulatory agencies such as Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), National Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency (NOSDRA) and Bayelsa State Ministry of Environment should work in synergy and bring this destruction of Kolo Creek to a halt. “Other critical stakeholders, including the media, Human/Environmental Rights groups should also come to the aid of affected communities. Communities along Kolo Creek should cooperate with Environmental groups [NGOs], security agencies and government to find lasting solution to the ongoing pollution of the Kolo Creek. “The success story of the Oil and Gas Task Force in Southern Ijaw should be explored, engaging locals with the requisite qualification to render security services and secure the areas concerned. “The Oil companies which pipelines are so exposed and allowing free access to crude oil, in this instance, Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) and Nigerian Agip Oil Company (NAOC) should shoulder part of the responsibility to protect their pipelines or facilities. SPDC or NAOC should also take up cleanup responsibility; of the Kolo Creek. “The National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) and State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) should come to the assistance of affected communities with relief materials such as drugs and water.”