 YOU cannot give what you don’t have. This doctrine rings so true of the operations in the domestic game with our so called gurus toying with people’s lives on the altar of sticking to rules which suit their whims and caprices. These all-knowing administrators have turned league venues to theatres of violence, leaving the spectators at God’s mercy as they run through the dense air from canisters of teargas shot indiscriminately by security operatives. Whereas other climes’ domestic league administrators seize every opportunity in the league to leverage on sponsorship deals, ours watch as existing businesses in the league collapse. It is running into three seasons when league matches were last shown on television. This is an invitation to anarchy? Why won’t roughnecks run riot, knowing cameras are not there to capture their misdeeds? The irony of what is happening weekly at league venues is that the organisers spend quality time hobnobbing with foreign technocrats, yet they are unable to replicate what they learned in the domestic game. If they did, they ought to have known that globally, local derby matches are high-risk ties, requiring extra vigilance and the best officials who can handle the twists and turns of the game without hitches. It is the referees’ decisions which are most times misrepresented that lead to fracas as seen in Umuahia on Sunday, when Abia Warriors hosted city rivals Enyimba FC of Aba. What happened in Aba isn’t different from the unholy incidents during the Katsina United versus Kano Pillars game. This tie had a long history of chaos in Katsina and Kano yearly. But our siddon look league buffs allowed a recurrence of previous years’ mishaps, preferring to act after the havoc has been committed. The pain in this shameful setting is that it happened in two consecutive opening seasons. Referees and match commissioners were the target of the irate fans; but now urchins have extended their assault on club chairmen, choosing the most popular of them as their first victim.  Felix Anyansi Agwu isn’t a new comer in the league. For any fan to strike Anyansi Agwu on the head, causing a serious injury, tells a lot about the poor security arrangements at match venues. Where was the chairman of Abia Warriors on that day? What has he done to fish out the culprits? Who are they? When would they be prosecuted? Typical of the league organisers, they rushed into a meeting to read the riot act in the aftermath of this bloody game. They came out with a laughable suggestion that league venues should have at least 100 policemen. They also resolved to get boys and girls of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and officials of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) to provide adequate security in the stadium. Perhaps, the organisers don’t know that 100 policemen can’t be found in many units in the states. Where they are, it would be more chaotic moving to match venues from 2pm to 7pm. The criminals would unleash hell on the citizenry, knowing that those who protect the lives and property of the people are at match venues. The meeting was silent about those who perpetuated the dastardly act. No one knows who paid for treatment for the injured. This writer’s heart sank watching Anyansi-Agwu sit on a bench with his singlet soaked in his blood. More depressing was the fact that Anyansi-Agwu sat before a cylinder fitted with a hose which was also clipped to his arm? In this 21st Century? What a shame, given what we see other climes do with such medical cases. I pity the players who ply their soccer business here because they are risking their lives with the obsolete medical systems at match venues. Even at that, most of the security operatives in such areas are fans of the home side and share the sentiments of grieving fans over referees’ decisions or inaction. The original 50 operatives never arrested one person, including the one in which Anyansi-Agwu is presently carrying stitches on his head. Anyansi-Agwu is not a noise maker. He is also not a violent person. He knows the rules of the game. He wouldn’t have constituted himself into a nuisance to necessitate the injury on his head. The pain about this attack on Anyansi-Agwu is that the beast would not be caught, or prosecuted, making what he did look like a legitimate act. Hooligans and urchins handle sensitive areas hence, no mechanism is in place to checkmate their activities. And the club chairmen are happy with it because the criminals take percentages from gates where their activities are not supervised. Is anyone surprised that with this setting, it is easy to pummel the referees – the exit gates are manned by hoodlums who won’t open the gates until the assignment is completed. Isn’t it laughable that the organisers are talking about getting 100 policemen at venues? Even if the organisers succeed in getting 100 policemen at match venues, acts of violence would persist except we have the league live on television and all stadia installed with CCTV cameras, not known to the fans. The idea of getting youth corps members to secure match venues should start with the organisers’ children and relations. Besides, any stadium that is slated to host games must build special exit gates that will make it absolutely impossible to access the referees before, during and after matches. Any harm inflicted on match referees will translate to 10 points deduction from the offender’s total. Such a defaulting club should not be allowed to play in that venue for one year. With a live coverage of the domestic league, it will be easier to identify where a problem began. Those running the league met an existing television right sponsor and a title owner of the league. What happened to these two bodies which funded the operations of the organising body? The domestic league is an apology, beginning with the sharp practices around the grounds before, during and after matches. Nothing to stimulate the interests of the spectators to sit patiently at the stands. The essence of organising league matches isn’t for both teams to benefit from the gates takings, but to allow Nigerians watch the country’s future representatives at CAF inter-club competitions. The matches ensure that the owners of the clubs (mostly state governments) get the facilities ready for the players to battle for honours. But with visionless organisers, anything goes, even if it means playing games with empty terraces. To avert deaths, the Inspector General of Police (IGP) should immediately prioritise manning of match venues before, during and after matches, through special squads. The IGP can place temporary police stations inside the stadium with Black Marias stationed to house hooligans when they are caught. Any other shoddy arrangement by the league organisers should be rejected. Perhaps, this is the time to ask the Inspector General of Police whose duty it is to ensure adequate security in any gathering. How come the police are disinterested in securing our match venues, knowing that football is an emotional game over which some criminals can take the laws into their hands? Dear Inspector General of Police, thugs, roughnecks and urchins storm the stadium with raised chests, warning that they are around and not scared to repeat the mayhem. This impunity won’t occur if security operatives whisk them away for punishment. Others will behave properly. The IGP should, as matter of urgency, ask his units in the states where matches are played to immediately storm these venues before a referee is killed simply because some fans are unhappy with a match rule. Teams which suffer from such unruly behaviour return home to await their hosts in the second leg game. I’m not surprised that roughnecks have seized match venues, largely because most of the match commissioners are weak. They don’t have the character to assert their authority before, during and after matches. These match commissioners are too friendly with club officials. They close their eyes to certain laxities in the security arrangement. Otherwise, how have these mayhems gone without the hoodlums being caught inside the stadia?