Abdullahi Alhassan, known as IMXB, is an upcoming Hausa hip-hop artiste. In this interview with ABDULSALAM MAHMUD, the student of Continuing/Adult Education at the Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida University, Lapai (IBBUL), advises fellow student-musicians not to abandon their education for music.  When did you start music? My romance with music started right from my secondary school days. I am a fan of hip-hop, and I’ve always followed Nigeria’s contemporary hip-hop artistes, and singing sensations. I am fond of downloading their latest songs immediately they are released. After that, I memorised the lyrics and mimic the voice of both the hit tracks and musicians. What genre of songs do you produce? I am a hip-hop artiste, and produce modern Hausa hip-hop songs, which are now the rave of the moment. It is what sweeps many Hausa music lovers off their feet. Have you released any music album? I have produced several hit songs, but the fact is, I am yet to release any album. But the good news is that my maiden album is only a matter of months from being launched. Already, I have put finishing touches to it. So, I am only waiting for the launch. I am assuring my fans that the inaugural album is coming out with a bang. It is an album that will rock the airwaves. Do you perform at events? Yes, I have been invited, and still get invitation for musical performance at entertainment shows. I have performed in Lapai, Minna, and several other places. I have lost touch of the number of times I performed at shows. At the risk of being immodest, I am now one of the regular performers on many entertainment shows organised on campus. How is combining schooling and music? The thing is both music and education are indispensable. One cannot be sacrificed for the other. And it is in appreciation of that that I always try to balance the time I have for my education and music career. Whenever I am in school, I avoid missing lectures, otherwise, my studies would suffer. Similarly, when I have the opportunity to attend shows and fun-seeking events, I try to give it my all, and my best. But so far, so good, it has been great for me in school, and for my music career. Do you see yourself becoming a professional artiste after school? Without mincing words, I am already a professional musician. Though I am still in school, I know, and I am certainly sure that music is my true calling, after I graduate. So, I see myself becoming a full-term artiste, who will be engaged in producing hit songs to the delight of my fans.  What message(s) do you pass across in your songs? My songs are devoid of obscenities, and vulgarities. I propagate virtues such as honesty, kindness, trust, patience, and generosity, to mention a few. I also preach the gospel of true brotherhood, hard work, good parenting, faithfulness, and acquiring education. I have produced several songs that exhorted youths to shun drug abuse, hooliganism, robbery, and other vices. I have sung songs that called on our leaders to be just, incorruptible, selfless and offer good governance to the masses. So, the messages I pass across in my songs have always been noble, and righteous. What is your dream as an upcoming musician? I want to go to places in my career. I hope to win plenty awards, locally and internationally. I want to become the most sought-after Hausa hip-hop artiste in the North. Above all, I want my songs to revolutionise Hausa hip-hop. Any piece of advice for talented student-musicians? I urge them to remain ambitious, passionate, dedicated and persistently strive towards actualising their career goals. The journey to attaining fame, and stardom will be rough but they should not relent, amid odds. They must remain focused, prayerful and believe in their dreams. But in the meantime, I want to urge them not to sacrifice their education pursuits for music.   