Following President Muhammadu Buhari’s approval of the emergence of community police initiative to help fight the rising insecurity in Nigeria, the Nigeria Police Force, led by the Inspector-General of Police,  Muhammad Adamu, state governors, traditional rulers and other stakeholders are currently making frantic efforts to help shape the emerging force. While many, including some community leaders and security experts seem to prefer local forces that will enjoy reasonable autonomy, the Nigerian Police Force and other conservative elements are proposing a system that will be under direct supervision and control of the regular police force. Our reporters report on the development. Associate Editor, Sam Egburonu, in Lagos, reports that the emergence of Amotekun in the Southwest region has revived the age-long quest for a workable community policing in the country. Call for community policing in Nigeria, which dates back to the early 1980s, got a new boost early January, 2020, when Southwest governors launched Amotekun, a security outfit “aimed at strengthening the security situation in the region.” The six state governors from the region; Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo), Seyi Makinde (Oyo), Gboyega Oyetola (Osun), Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos), Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti) and Dapo Abiodun(Ogun), said at the launch that they agreed to establish Amotekun since last year (2019).  Explaining how the outfit will operate, Akeredolu, the Chairman of Western Nigeria Governors’ Forum, said Amotekun’s operational framework was crafted by a body he identified as “DAWN Commission.” “The Commission has taken care of all grey areas that could cause friction in the operations of the personnel that will be deployed for the programme. As a matter of fact, the Nigeria Police will oversee and moderate the activities of Amotekun, thus making its operation conform to the acceptable standards,” he said, adding, “It is also important that I allay the fears of all those who have expressed misgivings as regards the quality of the personnel to be recruited to serve in the outfit.” On the funding of the security outfit, the governor said: “The Governors in the Southwest Region will provide all the logistic support that will enhance seamless operations of the programme. Each of the six States has procured 20 Pick-up Vans equipped with communication gadgets and one hundred motorcycles for the take-off of the Security Network.” Since that bold move, the quest for formation of community policing across the country has gone beyond mere debate as other regions and states have also flagged off their initiatives. The instant popularity and seeming wide acceptance of Amotekun notwithstanding, the initiative has faced several challenges as some of its critics wonder if it would be different from the federal government’s approved community policing initiative. It would be recalled that in April 2019, at the Forum of Northern Traditional Rulers in Kaduna, President Muhammadu Buhari, had approved the adoption of community policing, a programme he said would help “tackle the upsurge of crime in Nigeria.” Before that presidential approval of community policing, stakeholders have repeatedly called for a new way of policing Nigeria, pointing out that local officials, who knew the communities well, will do a better job in the area of providing security in the rural communities. Citing increasing crime wave in Nigeria, including, but not limited to, herdsmen-farmers clashes, the Boko-Haram insurgency in the North-East, kidnapping for ransom across the country and militancy in the Niger Delta area, observers have maintained that regular police force may not be enough to appropriately police the country. When this concept first gained currency in Nigeria due to increased crime rate from late 1980s through the early years of 2000, it led to formation of various security outfits, most of which operated as vigilante groups. They included Operation Sunlight, which was established in Borno State around 1988 and later re-formed as “Operation Damisa” (Hausa name for leopard); O’ dua People Congress (OPC), formed in the Southwest region during the late General Sani Abacha’s military regime; the Bakassi boys formed by Ariaria traders in Aba, Abia State, which later spread to other Southeast states; and the Egbesu boys, formed in the Niger Delta areas of the South-south zone. Our investigation shows that most of these early security outfits fizzled out mainly because some of the operators got out of hand, leading to excesses that made them unpopular. As the various states and regions set out to establish their community police outfits, stakeholders are of the view that the excesses of the early local security outfits must be avoided. Dr. Francis Ukoha, a consultant on public safety, told The Nation that “apart from the fear of some regions and states creating their local army, care must be taken to ensure that the right laws are put in place to ensure acceptable operational formula for all the community police outfits in the country. It is for this reason that I fully support the call to align the operation of Amoketun or any other community police outfit with Nigeria’s acceptable policing model. People must not be allowed to just arm young men and women without clear guidelines.” With the new initiatives, as championed by Amotekun, it seems the mode of operation of the emerging community police in Nigeria would be far different from the operations of earlier vigilante groups in the country. Even some top echelon of Nigerian police seems happy with the current development. The explanations notwithstanding, there seems to be confusion over the difference between Amotekun and the community policing that the federal government is proposing. While Lagos State Commissioner of Police, CP Hakeem Odumosu, told newsmen recently that “We are highly elated because they (Constabulary Police) are coming in to assist us. Police can’t work without information. They will serve as our eyes and informants,” there is still confusion if Amotekun is the same as the community policing the federal government is proposing, which Odumosu apparently made references to. For example, the Chairman of Idu Victoria Island Local Development Council, Princess Basirat Abiodun, had been quoted as saying that the project was long overdue. Asked the difference between CPOs and Amotekun, she said: “The issue of Amotekun is about Southwest only and it has its own segment. But this one is a Federal thing. These two can work together for peace and security because security is germane, so, everybody must key in.” Whether this difference and cooperation would be possible to maintain in practical sense remain to be seen. Nicholas Kalu, in Abuja, reports on Inspector-General of Police’s plans to achieve community policing.  Since his assumption of office in January 2019, Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Muhammad Adamu, has made it clear one of the strategies to ensure internal security would be community policing. Adamu feels strongly that a key solution to the problem of insecurity bedeviling the country is to take policing back to the people at the grassroots level. His words, “The concept is to give policing back to the communities and let them take the initiative in identifying the challenges that can lead to crimes and then we work with the communities to handle the crime. What we are saying essentially is that fighting crime should not be left to the law enforcement agencies alone.” Already efforts are on to get this people-oriented style of policing underway. Essentially the Nigeria Police working with grassroots structures-community leaders and traditional rulers, among others, would recruit volunteers who would be trained to work with the Force, especially carrying out low risk activities. They would be kitted and armed only with batons and paid allowances by the police. Investigations by The Nation also revealed that state governors across the country are enthusiastic about the idea of community policing, and some have even offered to pay additional allowances to the special constables to motivate them, when they eventually take off. With the Federal Government granting approval, The Nation gathered that the IGP has already directed state policing commands across the country to set up screening committees for the recruitment of 40, 000 special constables in this regard. Those to be recruited have to be physically fit and employed residents in their respective communities and must also be between the ages of 21 and 50. They will be dressed in police uniform but with a different numbers to differentiate them from regular policemen. Force Public Relations Officer, DCP Frank Mba, said the community policing is not a new police structure so the issue of fitting into existing policing operations does not arise. “Community policing is an integral part of the entire policing structure. We are not the first country to implement community policing. It reinforces the existing policing structure. It strengthens and emboldens the existing structure. It brings policing closer to the people and because it is a bottom top approach, it is engaging. It engages the people; the community and deepens partnerships between the police and people and people we are policing. It is not one new super structure that would be contending on contradicting or conflicting with the existing policing structure. It is a complement. It is built in. The difference is just that it involves more on the part of the people we are policing. “The real community members work with the police to set policing priorities and agenda, work with the policing to set policing safety priorities, identify problems, what are priorities of communities. Set agenda for the local police and work with the local police in finding solutions for the problems. “It is not a problem with the existing policing structure. It would rather make the existing structure better, closer to the people; make them more accessible and friendlier. It would make them more community based thereby deepening their ability to identify problems rather proactively and solve them on time, enhance their ability to collect information and intelligence. They are now working with the people. Who can better understand the community more than the community members themselves? “The Special Constables would be paid allowances because this is what the law says. The special constabulary system is a creation of the Police Act. It is not a creation of the IG. It is the fact that these are solution options that have been there that we have abandoned and which we are digging deep, dipping our hands into our solution bags and pulling them out. So SC will be paid allowances. Their uniforms would be catered for. They will be provided uniforms by the Police. Their berets, their batons, their boots, everything would be provided by the police alongside their allowances. They would not be paid salaries in the strict sense of the word.” Bassey Anthony, in Uyo, reports that Akwa Ibom State is yet to set up a formal community police initiative.  Despite the directive from the Nigerian Police Force Headquarters, Abuja, for the setting up of Community Police in all states of the federation, nothing has been put on ground for the takeoff of community security outfit in Akwa Ibom State. Most indigenes of the state, particularly, the job-seeking youth population,  are yet to get adequate information about the coming into existence of the Community Police project. Our investigation shows that this may be attributed to the fact that both the government and State Police Command have not begun any form of sensitisation and mobilisation about the upcoming security outfit. However, some stakeholders in the security circle of the state, including Air Commodore Idongesit Nkanga (retd), a former military administrator of the state, are unrelenting in rationalising the need for the establishment of a State Police Force. Nkanga, also the National Chairman of PANDEF, has been vehement in his support for regional security outfits such as Amotekun and Forest Guards. He posited that Akwa Ibom State needs her police force to combat crimes in the 31 local government areas of the state, particularly cultism which is taking its toll on the State. The State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), CSP N-Nudam K. Fredrick, confirmed to The Nation in Uyo on Wednesday that there is a directive from the Police Force Headquarters for setting up of community police. But he said the state command has not begun the sensitisation and recruitment  processes because modalities and logistical provisions have not been provided. “Yes, the Command has received a notification from the Police Force Headquarters to establish the Community Police Force in the state, but as I speak, the Command has not received any material or financial provisions to set it up. “The Commissioner of Police is also waiting for further directives from the Force Headquarters so that he can meet with the state government to draw up plans and modalities on sensitisation, mobilisation and recruitment of persons into the Community Police Force in the state.” The police spokesperson however said community policing is already in existence in the state because of the existence and operations of many vigilante organisations and other self-help policing initiatives. Nsa Gill, in Calabar, reports that in Cross River State, community policing is already in practice   Cross River State Government has noted that the concept of community policing was not new to them as the State Homeland Security outfit, which is backed by law since 2017, is operational. Commissioner for Information in the state, Asu Okang, said the Homeland Security was launched with 100 operational vehicles handed over to a combined team of the Police, Military and Civil Defense. The State Homeland Security law also permits the domestication of the vigilante group and help in neighborhood security. We have Operation Skolumbo and Anti-Cultism operation. For now, we have Homeland Security operations with the official security agencies. What we are soon to introduce is the civilian components, Okang said. “Our objective is to get an institution that will deal with the safety of citizens, deal with welfare, and then deal with information gathering. Within the Homeland Security Law there is codification and numbering system of all houses in Cross River State, within the law, there is the compartmentalization of the various settlements in the State into small homeland groups, made up of about 15 houses and we are trying to create homeland guards, who will gather information, prevent crimes and collaborate with the police,” he said. He admitted that there are still challenges with the state working with security agencies. “We are giving support to Police and we will continue to do the much we can as a state government”, he added. Police Commissioner in the State, Nkereuwem Akpan, agreed that the state government was putting efforts on security issues in the state and needs to be encouraged to do more. Asked how the Homeland Security has been operating so far in the state, he said, the governor has promised that he will do something soonest about it”. According to him, the structure is already on the ground in the State and needed backing and support in terms of logistics; with equipment and personnel, more achievements will be recorded in the state. He added that the Inspector-General of Police has briefed all Commissioners in the country on Community Policing on how to work; from DPOs to Area Commands to States; and getting all stakeholders involved and fully integrated. We can’t do without the community. So we need to be fully integrated with the public and the residents to record more success. Also speaking on the Community Policing concept in the state, one State Security Adviser in the state, Bassey Okim, a legal practitioner, said, “as a starting point for community police, we can tie it down to the different divisional police stations, in view that in the next 10 years, they will also have their own autonomy. Somebody should not steal a bottle of oil and the federal government is coming down to handle such case; it should be left for community police or at the local government”. “Understanding the terrain is very important when it comes to community police. Let’s not talk about the money that we will lose in doing this, but let’s talk about the lives that will be saved. “In a nutshell, I believe there should be community policing; I believe all stakeholders should be given a chance to contribute and I believe there should be a working document in which the limit of community policing will be defined. If people are in doubt, they should take lessons from another jurisdiction where this thing strives. The state government should be able to send people to the USA to go and study the working of this thing. During Former Governor Liyel Imoke’s regime, he sent me to Dubai to go and study at the American Institute of Security in Dubai, to go and know why there’s peace in Dubai. When I returned, I had to put in a lot of things I discovered into practice and the key to it is that everybody is given a sense of belonging, everybody has a stake.” “There should be confidence, a law defining the roles and responsibilities of each group. Let us not introduce community police and they start doing what the conventional police are doing. A lot of funds have to be invested in the community police officers, they must be paid, they must be taken care of before they start doing what our people are doing because that will make the people lose confidence. A lot of training has to be done,” he said. Nwanosike Onu, in Awka, reports that Southeast states currently operate different community police outfits  Compared to what obtains in the Southwest region today, the community policing approach in Southeast states is like ‘to your tents oh Israel.’ Despite the insistence of the apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, to establish joint security outfit like ‘Ogbunigwe’ the governors seem adamant on running their different state security outfits. For instance, Anambra State has what it calls ‘Operation Nkpochapu ‘ which was recently launched in Onitsha, by the state governor, Willie Obiano. The outfit, according to Obiano, has  about 50 Constables scheduled to be recruited into the state’s arm of Nigerian Community Police Force. Obiano directed traditional rulers, Divisional Police Officers, community and religious leaders, among others, to commence considering names of youths to be enlisted into Police Constabularies. Before the formation of Amotekun by the Southwest, Anambra State had already established what it called Anambra Vigilance Services (AVS), during the administration of former Governor Peter Obi Their duty in the then 177 communities was to make sure criminal activities were checkmated in the state, while they worked in liaison with the monarchs and Presidents General of the communities. Speaking with The Nation, Anambra State Commissioner for Information and Public Enlightenment, C Don Adinuba, said there was no need of Southeast forming another joint security outfit; rather, other states in the zone should replicate what the state already had. But in Enugu, the state governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, said due to rising spate of crime, particularly kidnapping and armed robbery, the state government took the bull by the horn and established the Forest Guards. He said this was after a meeting by the Southeast Governors Forum, where the decision was taken for the establishment of a regional security outfit. Ugwuanyi could not wait for the joint project as the insecurity situation in the state was becoming unbearable, hence the coming of the ‘Forest Guards’. The Forest Guards are being coordinated and guided by retired police officers, led by the former Inspector General of Police, Mr. Ogbonnaya Onovo. In Ebonyi State, internal security arrangement was already in vogue before the emergence of Amotekun. According to the State Commissioner for Internal Security and Border Peace, Mr. Stanley Ebegha, “What the Southwest has done is that they have just copied what is already in existence in Ebonyi,” adding that “this kind of security strategy is being put in place and has been made possible by the Southeast Security Consultant, Gen. Obi Umahi (retd). “But we have been silent about it because we are waiting to launch at the right time,” he said. Imo State has what it prefers to call ‘Operation Iron gate ‘, which was launched by the former governor, Emeka Ihedioha. Though, he is no longer there, the security outfit is still in existence. It seems the incumbent governor, Senator Hope Uzodinma, is not in a haste to dissolve them, as he has maintained that security of lives and property of his people was paramount to his administration. Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State has, on his part, established a Ministry of Homeland Security. Mr. Onyebuchi Ememanka, the Governor’s Chief Press Secretary, who made this known in Umuahia, said “the whole idea is to ensure that no inch of Abia territory will remain unpoliced. “The field personnel of the ministry will be trained under a collaborative effort with the Nigeria Police,” he said. Rosemary Nwisi, in Port Harcourt, reports that Rivers State Police Command has commenced work on community police plan  In respond to Inspector General of Police, Adamu Abubakar’s recent directive for the establishment of community policing in all state police commands across the country to help fight spate of insecurity in states and communities, the Rivers State Police Command, led by the state commissioner of Police, Musa Dandaura, has already set up the screening committee for the recruitment process, the spokesman of the command, Nnamdi Omoni, said. Omoni, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), said the screening committee membership is spread across all interest groups and religion in the communities, including community based Civil Society Groups/Non- Governmental Organisations. He said that those that will qualify for the job will wear uniform and ranks and will work with the police by gathering intelligence for the police to fight crimes and criminality in the rural areas. He said “community policing is not new; it is constitutional and is also contained in the Police Act and regulations. “That is why when the current Inspector General of Police assumed office, he came up with the idea of community policing that has been on before it was given a national dimension recently. “The IGP has directed us to set up a screening committee at the divisional level, the Area command level and the State level and that I can confidently tell you that it is in place now. “The DPOs have already done that; they have even held a meeting last week; they have elected their officers that will pilot the affairs of the screening committee. The committee cut across the board; it includes members of the civil society group, hunters, traditional rulers, religious bodies, among others. They are to constitute the screening team,” he said. Asked if the existing local vigilante groups are not represented in the screening committee and why not, Omoni noted that the members of the vigilante groups will be among recruits for the job. “The local vigilantes are going to be the Constables themselves, they may be constituted, but at the stage we are right now, we are trying to constitute the screening committee that will screen them so that as soon as we get the directives from Abuja, we now know the guidelines on how to go about it, but presently,  what we have done at the command level is that we have constituted the screening committee at the divisional level, at area command level, and State level, pending further directives from Force Headquarters,” he said. On who is qualified for the job, he said, “those to be recruited into the force are those who have stayed in the place for upward of 12 months, however, the recruitment is going to be in two stages first. “On the number of officers to be recruited, the Spokesman said about 75 persons from each LGA, adding that more recruitments would be made later. Elo Edremoda, in Warri, reports that Delta supports initiative  The Delta State Government has said it fully supports the clamour for community policing. Commissioner for information, Mr. Charles Aniagwu, in a telephone conversation, explained that if implemented, it will boost security across communities in the state. “Yes, we do support it. The IG is championing it. Community policing is good. It enables the policing persons to come from those communities and they know the people themselves. They understand their language and intricacies. Getting the policemen among those people has the tendency to serve the state more. “At the moment, we haven’t put in a law for that. But that’s not going to be a challenge. Once we agree that that’s what we are going to do, the next thing is to begin to work out the modalities,” Aniagwu stated. Meanwhile, the Isoko Development Union (IDU), the apex body of the Isoko ethnic nation, says synergy between the government and communities will ensure that community policing works across the country. Its President-General, Chief Iduh Amadhe, while describing the recent clamour for community policing as a “beautiful and good idea,” pointed out that the system has already been initiated in some places as local vigilante groups. He however, posited that persons enlisted to assist the police must be of “good character and be transparently honest,” otherwise grave mistakes can be made in picking criminals that will create bigger problems for the communities. Amadhe, while noting that the number of policemen, when compared to the Nigerian populace, “is too inadequate to police the country,” stressed that the solution to the nation’s security woes lies in involving the community people”. According to him, “There is so many communities, in the South-South to be specific, that don’t have police posts or stations but there is crime everywhere. If you do community policing, the leadership of that community will organise them, select them, take the list to the nearest police station; they will be known and even trained. “It is a good thing. It may not be uniform because what obtains in some states is different from another. Like the problem in Delta State is different from the kind of problem and terrain you have in Bayelsa. You have to involve government taking over mobility. How many communities will be able to provide vehicles for their group? Government and the communities should partner to be able to do it effectively. Asked if there may be clashes between the Nigeria Police and the propose local police groups, Chief Amadhe assured that once community leaders are on the same page with the government police, there “can never be problems”. “For example, in Isoko today, Oleh, Irri, Uzere, Ozoro, Ofagbe, Iyede, these communities have vigilante groups. The leaderships are known by the Area Commanders and Divisional Police Officers. From time to time they go round these communities. Like Ozoro, which hosts a polytechnic, has a lot of people; many pose as students when they are not, and do all sorts of things. How many police officers do we have in Ozoro that can go round, as large as the place is? So you need the hunters of the community, the vigilantes to assist government’s police to maintain the security of the country.”