It would be foolish for anyone not to expect the pockets of protests that trailed the renewed enforcement of the restrictions on commercial motorcycles (okada) and their tricycle counterparts (Keke Marwa) by the Lagos State government on February 1. The government had, through its Lagos State Road Traffic Law 2012 barred the vehicles from plying major roads and bridges in the state due to safety and security concerns. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu also signed the state’s traffic rules and fines in June, last year, shortly after assuming office. Apparently, the state government postponed the strict implementation of the rules until February 1, to enable it fix the roads that were generally left in bad shape by the Ambode administration. This must have been the opportunity cashed in upon by the numerous people who now decided to join the okada business in Lagos. The renewed enforcement thus put paid to speculations as to what the state government would eventually do with this mode of transportation. Ban on okada is not limited to Lagos. As a matter of fact, Lagos did not ban okada; the state merely banned them from plying 15 local government areas. Enugu and Cross River states have banned okada. Akwa Ibom too banned it (and bought the motorcycles from their owners). Even the Nigerian Army last year had cause to ban okada in seven states. Spokesman of the army Sagir Musa said: “The Nigerian Army (NA) over time has observed the use of motorcycles by armed bandits, kidnappers, criminal elements and their collaborators as enablers to perpetrate their heinous crimes especially in the states within the North West geopolitical zone of the country.”  He added: “In this wise, it is hereby reiterated that the use of motorcycles remain banned within the forest areas in Kano, Katsina, Zamfara, Sokoto, Kaduna, Kebbi and Niger States.” So, what are we talking about? I am still at a loss as to how people who did not lift a finger in their states when their governments banned, outright, operations of commercial motorcyclists, they simply hop into the next available bus or truck coming to Lagos, with their motorcycles only to land in the ‘Centre of Excellence’ which many people now see as ‘no man’s land’. Indeed, that could be the only reason for the obstinacy of some of the okada riders to ply their trade in Lagos, willy-nilly; or to suddenly realise that it is part of their God-given entitlements to ride the motorcycles anywhere in the state, and on their own terms. I have always argued that the influx of people into Lagos would have been somewhat reduced if only people learn to exercise their democratic rights in their states of origin. It does not help people who were merely watching when, for example, their governor made erection of statues a state priority, wasting a lot of public funds that could have been used to do better things on the meaningless projects. That Lagos is a cosmopolitan state or city should not make it a dunghill for all manner of refuse, including even the ones rejected as unfit for the villages. We would be under a great illusion if we assume that Lagos has an infinite capacity to absolve the truckloads of people and okada that are brought to the state almost daily, simply on account of its cosmopolitanism. At a point, if the influx is not checked, something would snap.  There is no doubt about that. Even as we speak, infrastructure is overstretched in Lagos. We have got to a point where people should be interrogating their state governments on how they are utilising their resources. It is unfair, unjust and even ungodly for people to fail to ask necessary questions from their home state governments only to get to somewhere else to insist on having those things that were not provided or allowed where they are coming from. And, on the specific issue of O-Pay, O-Ride, etc. Some people feel the government should have exempted them from the restriction. But my findings show that these businesses were not registered with the Lagos State government. This seems strange to me; though. I cannot understand how people will establish what has been touted to be billions of Naira projects without getting the government’s nod to operate. It is only proper for anyone who wants to do business in a place to be conversant with the rules and regulations governing that business. Those behind these businesses ought to know that there is the Lagos State Road Traffic Law forbidding okada in certain parts of the state. That law has neither been suspended nor repealed. Even at that, I do not think anything has been spoiled now that the state government has decided to enforce the restriction more rigorously. As I have said earlier, okada business is not banned completely (let me add ‘completely’ for effect) in Lagos. So, those in the ‘organised’ ‘okada’ business can continue to ply their trade on the routes that are not under restriction. The issue apparently now is that the pie is going to be smaller and may not be worth it. But that is a price to pay for ignoring the state traffic law before launching the business. I sympathise with them though, but that should not be a reason to want government to amend or bend a law that had been in existence long before the commencement of that business. At any rate, we would be deceiving ourselves if we say that because the riders of such motorcycles work for the ‘organised’ okada operators, they are better than their ‘un-organised’ counterparts. I think that innocence was noticeable only at the very beginning of those businesses. As at February 1 when the enforcement began afresh, many of them had started manifesting the characteristics of the okada riders that we used to know. This should be expected. The business, being the daily money spinner that it is, must have necessitated the relaxation of the rules by these companies to accommodate some of the old okada riders who began to look for greener pastures in these establishments. So, it was a matter of time for the ‘organised’ okada riders too to begin to manifest the characteristics of their progenitors. This is one of the bitter truths that the owners of the ‘organised’ okada business would not want to admit. The truth of the matter is that okada business can only be profitable in a chaotic situation in a place like Lagos. It would only have been a matter of time for the ‘organised’ operators to close shop if their riders were to observe traffic rules the way they should. The business would not be worth it if the riders cannot drive against traffic or ignore traffic lights as many of them are won’t to do. Many of those who patronise them would readily tell you this is what makes them patronise okada, organised or un-organised. Okada takes them to their destinations faster. There is no way this can be possible if the okada riders, like other road users, obey traffic rules. There is nothing like gentleman in the okada business. When they scratch your vehicle, you are in trouble. When you mistakenly hit them, you are done for. For them, head or tail, other vehicle owners lose. It does not take them time to congregate and mete out jungle justice on the vehicle owner, irrespective of whether they are right or wrong. There is no way some people would not feel aggrieved about the enforcement of the restriction. It is the only means of livelihood that many have come to know in the past years. For sure, some of the riders could be law abiding; but they appear to be in the minority. Again, we cannot say the state government should fold its arms and allow the chaos that has come to define road transportation in the state to continue. We can continue to argue till thy kingdom come as to whether the government’s decision is right or wrong; but that is neither here nor there. At the rate at which all manner of people, largely unskilled and uneducated keep bringing truckloads of okada into Lagos to ride, something would still have happened, now or in the future. We all must have learnt our lessons: the governments and the governed. Okada business was a product of bad governance at all levels. I recollect that up till the early 1990s, those of us in Lagos were amazed whenever we read stories on okada or watched documentaries on them as taxis in places like Kano and Calabar, to name a few. None of us then could ever have thought that Lagos would one day become the hub of their operations, and in our lifetime. This is sad indeed. Let everyone that contributed one way or the other to the okada menace atone for their sins. I said it last week that we might not have ever considered the okada option in Lagos if the then Gen. Muhammadu Buhari as head of state had not killed Lagos Metroline project under the Lateef Jakande forward-looking administration in 1983. We probably would not be talking about okada if power supply had not been epileptic. We probably would not have been talking about okada menace, especially in Lagos, if the roads were not neglected, especially in the recent past. So, let everyone concerned say ‘never again’. It is only then that artisans would be able to return to their trades, industries would be able to employ again and we can then put the okada issue behind us faster than can be imagined.