Nobel Laureate Prof. Wole Soyinka, former Chairman of the Council of National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), Prof. Chidi Odinkalu and the senator who represented Kaduna Central, Shehu Sani, were among personalities at the Federal High Court in Abuja on Wednesday for the resumed hearing in the trial of #RevolutionNow Convener Omoyele Sowore. The activist and politician was arrested and arraigned for organising a protest against alleged bad governance in the country. Soyinka arrived the court ahead of the proceedings which started around 10 a.m. Sani, who is also facing a fraud-related charge before another judge of the Federal High Court in Abuja, sat behind Soyinka after greeting him. He also whispered something into the ears of the world-renowned writer, and both laughed. Sowore and his associate, Olawale Bakare, were arrested last August for organising the #RevolutionNow protest and were held in the custody of the Department of State Services (DSS) for months until their arraignment towards the end of last year. Both were charged with a treasonable felony for allegedly planning to topple the Muhammadu Buhari administration, among other counts, as well as abusing the President. The case could not go on, on Tuesday, owing to the trial judge’s absence. This pushed the hearing till Wednesday. Prosecution lawyer Aminu Akilu told the court yesterday that an amended charge had been filed, which he was yet to serve on the defendants. Defence lawyer Adeyinka Olumide-Fusika (SAN) sought time to peruse the new charge and faulted Alilu’s request for an adjournment. He argued that the AGF was not prepared for the trial and urged the judge to strike out the case for want of diligent prosecution. The lawyer said he was surprised that Alilu, who signed and filed the initial seven-count charge on September 21, 2019, was telling the court that he was just taking over the case. Ruling, Justice Ojukwu, who described the application by the prosecution as frivolous, said the action was an attempt to delay the case. She awarded N200,000 cost against the prosecution for causing unnecessary delay in the proceedings. The judge adjourned till today for further hearing.