Organised labour in Niger state on Monday, directed workers to embark on an indefinite strike from February 4, over non implementation of the new national minimum wage and other entitlements. The directive was contained in statement jointly signed by Mr Yakubu Garba, chairman Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), his Trade Union Congress (TUC) counterparts Yunusa Tanimu and made available to newsmen in Minna. According to the statement, organized labour in the state had met at an emergency joint State Executive Council (SEC) on Jan. 29 to resolve on a notice of 21 days ultimatum of strike action issued to the government on Jan. 3, 2020. “In compliance with the resolutions reached at the emergency joint State Executive Council (SEC) meeting of Niger state organised labour held at Labour House on Wednesday; 29th January, 2020. “We write to formally inform you that all civil servants in Niger state are by be this notice directed to proceed on an indefinite strike action with effect from midnight February 4, 2020, ” it read. The statement said the strike would be comprehensive shall remain in force till the state government “demonstrate a clear and adequate commitment” to tackling lingering issues bothering on workers’ welfare. Part of the demands of labour included the immediate implementation of the N30,000 National Minimum wage, it’s consequential adjustment and accrued arrears to all categories of workers both at the state and local government levels. They are also calling for the immediate resumption of payment of outstanding annual leave grant for 2019 to deserving workers at both state and local government level as well as a clear commitment from the state government on pension policy in the interest of workers. Efforts by the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) to get the reaction of state Head of Service, Hajiya Salamatu Abubakar on the matter was not successful as she was not in the office and her mobile telephone line was not going through. Meanwhile, at the time of filling this Mr Yakubu Garba, chairman NLC in the state told NAN that the organised labour was open and willing to meet with the government. (NAN)