Governor Dapo Abiodun on Wednesday said his administration would not embark on frivolous spending; rather, strategically allocate resources to projects that have direct and positive impact on the people. Abiodun spoke at the turning of Sod of 14km Ijebu-Ode-Epe road construction that links Ogun and Lagos states respectively from the Epe end of Lagos state and Ijebu-Ode-Ikoto axis of Ogun state. The Governor noted that the reconstruction of the road would not only ease traffic on the Lagos – Sagamu – Ore Expressway, but also bring relief to people by saving ‘’Nigerians value time on traffic.’’ The Governor added that the dual-carriage road with 10 lanes – four lanes on each side with one pull-out section, while the toll plaza consists 14 lanes for easy payment of tolls, would also engender the socio-economic development of the State and communities along that road corridor. “One of our promises was to provide infrastructure to all parts of the State. We promised that our administration will rehabilitate and reconstruct the Ogun State segment of Ijebu-Ode-Epe road to bring the needed relief and succour to our people and engender economic development of our dear State. “Today’s event is yet another instance of promise made and promise kept. As a government that places premium on integrity, we shall continue to keep our promises. “Our duty is to ensure strategic allocation of resources on projects that have direct and positive impacts on the “Building our Future Together. “Perhaps, what makes this particular road very important is the fact that we cannot realize the full socio-economic benefits of the road if it is half-way done, particularly, that Lagos State has completed its side of the same road. Our people in both states want and deserve good governance. Let me; therefore, use this opportunity to restate our Administration’s commitment towards the infrastructural development in all parts of our dear State. “In fact, we will be unveiling two major roads in Ota, Ogun West Senatorial District, in a matter of days. These roads also link our dear State with Lagos. We should also keep in mind that Ogun State and Lagos State are still in talks with the Federal Government for the release of the rehabilitation of Lagos-Sango Ota-Abeokuta Expressway and Sagamu-Ogijo-Ikorodu road. “As I have said earlier, we can only take full advantage of our proximity to Lagos, the 5th largest economy in Africa, if we provide good infrastructure which will help to put into economic expression, the proximity. It is more cheering and encouraging to note that Lagos State has demonstrated commitment towards partnership for the development of infrastructure in the border areas. This is why our two States are coming up with the Lagos-Ogun Joint Development Commission.” He assured that the interconnecting roads between Ogun and neighbouring states would be prioritised towards bringing greater easy movement and economic prosperity. He noted that road reconstruction was on going simultaneously across the three Senatorial Districts, while the reconstructed Ota-Ikola road would soon be opened. He enjoined people of the areas to join hands with government and the contractor to ensure speedy completion of the project, adding that it was imperative for the elders and youths to see themselves as stakeholders in the efforts to ‘Building Our Future Together.’ Abiodun called on the contractor firm – Craneburg Construction, to ensure that youths in the areas were adequately engaged in the project, charging the youths also to take the opportunity offered by the project to engage themselves in profitable ventures. The Contractor Engineer, Gilbert Sassine, promised to deliver the completed work within the stipulated time of 12 months for the benefit of mankind.