The reflection of my journey into the evil forest of carnivorous animals, leaving behind my mirthfully but monetarily crippled motherland for a rapacious nation that either prey on you or you develop a vampirish attribution for you to survive in this devilry jungle inhabited by cruel higher animals crawl into my heart as the tears of sorrow rolled out of my pearl looking small whitish eyes. My bewailing mood was ignited by the research grant given by the government of Germany to Mrs. Bobape, the wife of my boss to further her research project in the country. My heart sank in the psychological ocean of trauma as I refashioned my lying position on the sofa to a sitting posture of a person struck by an ancestral spirit of tribulation. The tears keep coming uninterruptedly like a flowing river that has its source from a Caribbean sea. I travelled into the cognitive genesis of my chronicle. It was on Saturday morning, around 9:00am when a tall black man with an English outfit of a white shirt and grey trouser knocked on our wooden door, made up of bamboo tree. My younger sister of the age of eight years ran to the entrance to open the door for the guest. It came as a surprise like a heavy rain in a harmattan period when my mother and the visitor exchange pleasantries ditto to that of kinsfolk that has their bond of relationship tied from the mother side. The box of bewilderment was opened before my two eyes as I turned into a commodity between the two parties which clear space for bargain. The duo later agreed after a heated haggling session on a fixed amount that will be repatriated back to my family every third week of a month. Then, the doleful transaction became unequivocal to me as my beautiful facial terrain metamorphoses into a dam that over-flows its boundary – gushing out from my optical cavity. The agreement was sealed and I was handed over to the man of muddy business. My excruciation level accelerated as I flash back on the death of the bread winner of the family, Mr Olowolayemo which precipitated from heart attack gotten from the ill breaking news of government acquisition of his farmland for ultra-modern market construction without compensation. If not for that ugly occurrence, my mother would not have settled down with the unpleasant action of loaning out her pretty daughter to the cold hands of predator. We boarded a bus and the expedition to a strange land of vultures begins. The cold breeze blew away my lugubrious feelings as I was bewitched by the exhilarating performance of some small beautiful multi-colours birds that hover around the trees and also make a rocketing ascension into the vague cloud. The moving trees captivated my eyes as if we are having an Olympic racing contest. The atmospherical condition was so friendly with an inweave black and grey coloured cloud, having a lining of whitish fog, accompanied by a drizzling pour. Our bus reduces its acceleration as we approached a government day secondary school; in front of the school are bumps and my eyes swiftly affixed at the tripartite colour of my country flag (red, yellow and green) erected in the school premises. Unconsciously, the former plaintive disposition engulfed my heart and sent the blithesome mood into expatriation as my affixed eyes are being relinquished and blurred from the flag, aided by the distance of the moving bus. The murmuring in the bus and that of the hawkers and traders cacophony around the border wakes me up from catnap. Inquisitiveness was my state of mind of where we are but nobody is ready to lighten up my darkened curiosity pit as many are being antsy. They are beclouded with the terrifying look of men in grey khaki and that of the costume of men in black uniform who easily suppress their countenance with a vile monetary gratification. My chaperone face was as good as that of a newly wedded couple. No atom of frightfulness could be seen in him because he has already known how to wash his unpleasant plates and to eat with elders is as effortless as a downhill exercise. Catching my attention is the dancing flag of the nation that has twosome colours of green and white. Then, my oddity state drowns down the sea of discernment. It roars from behind, a voice of man in beige brown attire, commanding all passengers to alight from the bus for a proper inspection. Here, I regain my lost hope that the cat will be easily let out of the bag but not knowing they are all birds of a feather that flock together. Disguising to be a saint among the flock of black sheep but which happens to be the cardinal scoundrel. We both went through a hitch-free scrutiny that was achievable as a result of the turtle trait he possessed which avail him the survival route to ply among his peer of untamed and sagacious creature. We paved our way into the iconic land of black race. My first experience in the house of Mr Bobape who was a business man that engaged in household appliance importation was rosy but my blooming season started to winter away by the time I clocked fifteen years. The family is blessed with three beautiful kids of whom two are boys and a girl with the age bracket of six, five and three. My duties are to ensure the cleanliness of the house; looking after the kids and picking them from schools. It was a villainous Monday morning after Mrs Bobape has gone out to her work place with her kids, having the secondary motive of dropping them in school when I was called by Mr Bobape to come and clean up his bedroom. I left the clothes I was washing and I quickly ran to answer the call of my boss. He was on the couch in his bedroom, going through a newspaper. I knelt down as a sign of respect from a servant to his master but my greetings was unnoticed as a result of the magnetic newspapers that charm his heart. I commenced the room cleaning. Unknowingly, his invisible hands grabbed me from behind and I was flipped into a futon of 6ft x 6ft with height 20 inch. He got me molested. I cried for help and also struggled for escapement but his masculine features rendered me incapacitated. He got his luciferian footprint enroot in my body. This marks the lugubrious inception into the inland of copulation. My seed of anguish started growing in this wildlife setting that continue to prey on me with Mr Bobape as the Gardner who weed-out unwanted plants and keep up watering and grooming the kernel of misery. The rosy days was speedily over-thrown by the lurid season. It becomes a weekly nightmare of having Mr Bobape Masquerade, performing a coition act in my prohibited temple of decency. My sexual experience becomes a Saturday party that must be organized as well as attended by people. I got stuck in the planet of confusion. An unforgettable day that is shelved in my inconspicuous cerebral of indelibility is the day when I was indisposed. Even, the house chores were done by Mrs Bobape because her bank of empathy has not been frozen. She’s an epitome of humanity and an embodiment of forbearance. Despite her kindheartedness, divulging the shocking revelation about her husband illicit act is like ignorantly finding oneself in a nest of snakes. My hard-disk of bravery has been formatted and the application software of fear has been installed into my brain that the day I intend voicing out will be the day I will get my death certificate. I was in my room taking a rest to hasten the functionality of the drugs I took when I heard a knock at my door. I summoned my inner strength and heard towards the door. Releasing the key-lock, it appears before me, the sex monster. I thought it was a compassionate visit but it turns out to be his evil garden work. Garrulity over-shadows me, consistently pleading and persuading for an intimation amnesty. But, he refused and went ahead to pollute my sacred eggs with his disgusting infusion. Oh, No! I muttered. Pregnancy became an inevitable death that hunts man down. However, it’s not a strange visitor that misses road. Getting abortion with the Mr Bobape tiny pill is not an inaugural catastrophe. Many zygotes have been flushed out. A number that exceeded my age count. Every time I received the anti-zygote pill, he re-echos and renews our agreement of not voicing out and an attempt of breaching handbag a death penalty. The thought of a number of lives that has been terminated beclouded my heart and that of my womb fertility that is depreciating as days ride on a bike of ticking clock got me depressed. My heart crumbles when the news of Mrs Bobape, embarking on a journey to a white man land was broken to me. I felt hurricane eruption within me. Humanity seems to have deserted me. My candle of hope is at the verge of being blew-off and my sex slavery journey is at the path of taking new dimension. My brain searches for savior and make a circuitous meditation on how the sayings of the elders will not mark present in my life – “the ambush of an abode by an influx of rats is a result of cat absence.” Who will take the cat role in my life? Taoheed writes in from Lagos via Dawood.taoheed94@gmail.com