Lagos State Government said on Sunday that it was not part of the eviction of residents of a beachside community at Tarkwa Bay by the Navy. It, however, said with the destruction of property in Abule-Egba by individuals and groups, who chose to endanger the lives and property of residents through illicit trade, the government would support every step taken to tackle the distasteful and irresponsible behaviour of vandals, who pilfered the country’s commonwealth and endangered the lives of others. The government said although it was not part of the eviction, it was, however, engaging the stakeholders concerned to ensure that the rights of those legally permitted to live at Tarkwa Bay were not violated. It stated its position in a statement released on Sunday and signed by the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr. Gbenga Omotoso. According to Omotoso, the Navy said the dislodgement followed the discovery by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) that pipeline vandals had taken over Tarkwa Bay to sabotage the country’s economy by stealing petroleum products for selfish and personal gains. “According to Navy Commander Thomas Otuji, the Navy found at Tarkwa Bay about 300 spots and pits where petroleum products were being tapped and sold to unlicensed individuals as well as neighbouring countries. He emphasised that the trend is dangerous for people living at Tarkwa Bay, which has oil pipelines that run through the Lagos coastline.” Atlas Cove Jetty is a major installation of the NNPC for receipt and distribution of petroleum products to the western part of Nigeria and located within the precincts of Tarkwa Bay in Lagos State, but has become notorious for economic sabotage. Reports indicate that in 2019, the Navy apprehended oil vandals carrying 1400 jerry-cans of petrol, 27 drums and five outboard engine boats worth over N20million at the location. “It is estimated that the country loses petroleum products in excess of N4billion on a daily basis to oil theft.