The Chief Environmental Officer of a non-governmental organisation (NGO), the African Clean-Up Initiative (ACI), Mr. Alexander Akhigbe, has urged Nigerians to imbibe volunteerism culture in cleaning the society. He spoke while addressing reporters during a clean-up held in Lagos. Akhigbe said passersby at Obalende on Lagos Island found it difficult to understand that some people would just come from their houses to a particular location and start cleaning without being paid. He said the NGO was passionate about the environment, adding that it raised youths and created a platform for lovers of the environment to add value to it. “Our project is not just to clean the environment alone, we are also sensitising people to enable them see it as a personal responsibility. “To a large extent, we advocate what we call a personal social responsibility and what this means is that every individual should have a personal commitment to humanity to do something they are passionate about. “We have been doing this clean-up since 2010 and most times whenever we choose a location, we will conduct an opinion poll and take feedback. We’ll ask people to identify a location they think deserves clean-up and when they mention, we will do our internal survey evaluation. “Before we chose here (Obalende), we had Mushin, Surulere and Ajegunle, but when we did our survey, we decided to pick Obalende because we had been to other mentioned areas,” Akhigbe said. He said that the clean-up was sponsored by Coca-Cola after observing the persistence in the voluntary exercise for 10 years and they wanted to extend it to other parts of the country. Akhigbe said that the NGO had volunteers from Sango Ota in Ogun State, Ikorodu, Iyana-Ipaja, Ejigbo, Obalende, Agege and other areas in Lagos State, which they engaged in the clean-up. He hailed the efforts of the Lagos State Government and the Lagos State Waste Management Authority (LAWMA) for giving them sorting waste bags and packaging the refuse after the clean-up. “Don’t just sit down at home and start waiting for the Messiah to come to your doorstep. You can be the Messiah your community is waiting for. “Do something, come out and be the change that you want to see in your environment. This will motivate people,” Akhigbe said. He added that cleaning of the environment was everybody’s responsibility, not the government alone. Some of the participants, after the cleaning, expressed satisfaction for making their environment cleaner and healthier. Mr. Confidence Atuegbu, a National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) member serving with Tayo Oyetibo Law Firm, said that he was fulfilled to contribute to the growth of the society. Another participant, Mr. Mohammed Gambo, a filmmaker, said he was inspired by a friend, Muniru Adams. He advised that each person in the society should contribute to its development, regardless of his or her status. Opeyemi Olusola, an NYSC member serving at the Lagos State Ministry of Works and Infrastructure, praised ACI for the opportunity, saying the rate of volunteers had been on the increase and the exercise was well coordinated. Another participant, Miss Divine Ebuleogu, an accounting student from the University of Lagos, urged other Nigerians to support the exercise, to make the environment cleaner and healthier for everyone. The volunteers, over 100 people, grouped themselves into five groups and cleaned eight areas at Obalende including Obalende Police Barracks, Underbridge, among others.