It was a day of celebration and empowerment, Friday, in Kosofe Local Government Area of Lagos State, as Hon Afolabi Sofola, Chairman, Kosofe LGA, commemorated two years in office. The event, held at the council secretariat, Ogudu, had in attendance royal fathers, political dignitaries and community leaders, including the Olojota of Ojota, Oba Jimoh Olawale Cole, Senator representing, Lagos East, Sen. Bayo Osinowo, Hon. Sanni Okanlawon, representing Kosofe Constituency 1 at the Lagos State House of Assembly and the Area H Commander, CSP Olubunmi Adekola. Speaking, Sofola said the occasion was doubling as an empowerment one because his administration has made empowerment of the people a paramount task. He said his government is aware that capital may be a handicap to those who are willing to put their skills to task, hence the gesture. He said, “It is our job to ensure that we give you the right tools to help you make a better living for yourselves; to make sure you can stand on your own and take profit back home; and that you can pay your children’s school fees and put food on your families’ tables.” He also said his administration will continue to prioritise the welfare of the people and provision of infrastructure in roads, education and health. Four space buses were presented to four Divisional Police Stations under Area H, namely: Oworo, Ogudu, Ifako and Anthony divisions by Senator Bayo oshinowo, to enhance police patrol and security; while grinding machines, sewing machines and hair dryers running into hundreds were presented to lucky citizens of the council. Lending his voice, Senator Bayo Osinowo congratulated the executive chairman and his people, noting that what they’re witnessing is confirmation of the fact that the local government is the antidote to poverty because they know the people and know what is right for them. While stressing that the right people with corresponding skills be given the equipment, Osinowo also appealed to beneficiaries to utilise the equipment rather than sell them.