 Mrs Ngozi David, a business woman living in Abuja has lived with the nightmare of childlessness for 25 years. Left with nothing to hope for, she said resignedly: “I am used to the stigma. Even my friends and family members have joined my inlaws to call me derogatory names. But what can I do? I have run from pillar to post, tried everything, been to several hospitals, visited countless churches, patronised so many Muslim clerics, yet everything had been abortive. “I applied to adopt a child some years ago but when I didn’t get after eight months, I decided not to pursue it and went for prayers to different worship centres. I don’t even know what to do again: just waiting for God’s time.” The issue of child adoption and the need to have a child that a couple can call their own has been a nightmare to many families in Nigeria. This is because some couples are unable to have their own biological children and resort to other options such as adoption or fostering so as to have children they can call theirs. In Nigeria, adoption is governed by two laws, the Child Rights Act (2003), which incorporates the rights and responsibilities of children, and the Adoption Law of the state where one seeks to adopt the child from. Adoption is a legal process pursuant to state statute in which a child’s legal rights and duties toward his/her biological parents are terminated and similar rights and duties toward adoptive parents are substituted. It is also an order vesting the parental rights and duties relating to a child on the adopters, made on application by an authorised court. For adoption to take place, the court is vested with powers to grant an adoption order, depending on the type of adoption involved. The court also has the right to cancel an adoption process if it thinks or get reports that the prospective parents adopting the child applied undue duress. In Nigeria, adoption procedures and rules differ from state to state. For example, adoptive parents must foster children for at least three months in Lagos, but must foster for at least one year in Akwa Ibom, while Abuja allows adoption only if one parent is a Nigerian. The laws in most parts of the country provide that an application for an adoption must be made in the prescribed form and submitted to the registrar of a competent court. Section 116 of the Child Rights Law of Lagos State 2015 makes provision for adoption application, made in prescribed form and accompanied with: the marriage certificate or a sworn declaration of marriage, the birth certificate or sworn declaration of age of each applicant and two passport photographs of each applicant, as well as a medical certificate of fitness from a government hospital of the applicants. In practice, the prospective parents adopting the baby cannot make this application to the court on his or her own without the consent of the government welfare agency or department. In Lagos State, the government department responsible for such a process is the Ministry for Youth and Social Development. On receipt of the application, the court will give an order of investigation to be conducted by Social Welfare Officers, supervision officers and any other persons as the court may determine to assess the suitability or otherwise of the applicant as an adopter. Observers, however, note that the quest for children further compounds the pressure from family and friends, as well as high expectations from the society which force some couples to engage in acts contrary to the law. Some observers say it is such pressure and the “somewhat unfriendly” adoption laws in some states that prompts “child harvesting,” popularly called “baby factories,” which is fast becoming a lucrative business for those offering to solve the eagerly would-be parents who desperately seek babies. Mrs Justina Agbo, a civil servant who resides in Abuja, said she got married 15 years ago and has no child yet. “I applied to adopt a child some years ago but when I didn’t get after eight months, I decided not to pursue it and went for prayers to different worship centres. I don’t even know what to do again: just waiting for God’s time.” Agbo said even though her in-laws have been helping her in that regard, she is always moody, sad and feels rejected. She added that in 2019, she contacted someone who said he would link her up with a “baby factory” to book for a baby boy at N300, 000, but was later advised by a friend not to go ahead with the plan. On why she didn’t go for adoption, she said: “I learnt that the process is cumbersome and takes years. I am just waiting for God’s time.” Mrs Patience Gying, a Counsellor, says people now see “baby factories” as a lucrative business where they can easily get paid selling unwanted babies. This, according to her, they do without thinking about the fate of the innocent child sold. She said the practice negates the Child Rights Law and the reasons for setting up homes to cater for the needs of prospective persons wishing to adopt or foster children legally. Gying said some of those arrested in the past for engaging in “baby factory” business said they did that because of economic hardship, the desperation by couples to get babies and greed for money.  A lot of the girls rescued from such factories were school dropouts, young women who were denied access to education or sent away from their homes for various reasons. Abject poverty is the major reason young mothers give up their babies in exchange for money, while others do so due to societal shame and the lack of support or the lack of knowledge about what or where to get help after getting pregnant the wrong way. Unfortunately, the baby trade business is also promoted by some medical practitioners, proprietors of motherless babies’ homes and even relations of girls who become pregnant out of wedlock due to societal shame. Even though the nefarious activity continued unhindered in the past, the government, security agencies and community members have begun to beam their searchlights on such acts. In September last year, the police command in Lagos State rescued 19 expectant young women. When some couples and families are seeking for children to genuinely adopt and take care of just like every normal family, some greedy individuals are thinking of how to make money out of it. While adoption is legal and couples are allowed to do so, the laws guiding it are stringent, just to make sure that such children are well catered for. Mrs Agnes Utah-Hart, the Director, Gender Development Department, Federal Capital Territory, explained that the delay in adoption process is to ensure that the applicants are thoroughly accessed and scrutinised. Utah-Hart says the measure is also to ensure that only those that are suitable and capable are given the opportunity to adopt. She noted that the stages of adoption or fostering in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) include a hand written application letter, application form, birth certificate or declaration of age. Other requirements are recent passport photographs of the prospective adopter, evidence of income, medical fitness, letter of consent and other legal processes. “The application is submitted to the Secretary, Social Development Secretariat, who, in turn, minutes it to the Director, who minutes it to the Deputy Director and there is a team that does home visitation as part of adoption process which is considered very important. “We visit the homes and assess the readiness of the applicant that wants to pick the child. After that, there is an adoption committee – the FCT Adoption Committee to look at the application based on merit and availability of children.” According to her, at least 500 people apply for adoption and fostering annually within the FCT. She said some applicants fail to complete the adoption process to the legalisation stage, which is the final phase, while some complain about the waiting period of 12 months as stipulated in Section 121 of the Child Rights Law, “but it is normal”. A legal practitioner and children activist, Ms Grace Auta, said Section 30 of the Child Rights Act specifically deals with selling of children and anyone guilty of such is liable on conviction to a term of 10 years in prison. Auta added that “any payment to facilitate adoption process is also against the law and anyone that contravenes this is liable on conviction to a fine of not more than N30,000 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or both.” She further said: “No matter how long or complex child adoption process might be, the joy and fulfilment given to a child, abandoned by a biological mother, into a welcome and loving home erodes all questions. “The child, who knows only the warmth and care of his or her adoptive parents grows with the notion that they truly are his/her parents, hence the need for adopters to patiently pursue the process to its logical conclusion, since it is a worthy cause.” 