 The National Working Committee (NWC) of the Association of Medical Laboratory Technicians and Assistant of Nigeria (AMELTAN) has ordered the dissolution of its structures across the 36 states of the federation. The National Publicity Secretary of the AMELTAN, Comrade Akinwumi Kazeem, made these known during a press briefing in Abuja at the weekend. According to him: “The NWC resolved to dissolve all state structures of the association to enhance and maintain a unified operational structure for all organs of administration of the association. “The NWC in session upholds the commitment of the Chief Emmanuel Isijana Samuel-led leadership towards an accelerated growth of the association. Towards enhancing sustenance of this, the meeting adopted a blue print for a more focused administrative operation”. The group further described as illegal, a meeting held by a fragment of its members in Kano on February 14-15, 2020. “The Association of Medical Laboratory Technicians and Assistants of Nigeria as a registered organization under the laws of our land is governed  by her constitution and recognized administrative organs where there is no provision for a regional or national progressive forum (as was tagged by the organisers), we therefore, wish to bring to the foreknowledge of the public specifically, the MHWUN, the Medical Laboratory Science Council of Nigeria and our teaming membership that, the above meeting was an illegal assembly and the outcome thereof should be regarded as a product of illegality. “Pertinent to submit further that the organisers and players of the Kano meeting are consistently committed to pull down the Chief Emmanuel Isijana Samuel-administration. “Their activities are dated as far back as 2013, 2015, and 2019. The MHWUN and the MLSCN had to intervene at all the stages as mediators for peace to reign. “The claim by the group that the leadership of AMELTAN has been dominated by the southern part of the country is not only false but a clear tactic to establish grounds for cheap sympathy. The present national leadership of AMELTAN has a ratio of 7:7 with both the north and south maintaining equal proportions. “The NWC in session in very strong terms condemn the activities of the organisers and partakers at the Kano forum and call on all teaming members of the association to disregard and disassociate themselves with any group operating at variance with the constitution of AMELTAN,” he said. To further reaffirm its effort towards maintaining unity of purpose and progress, the President of AMELTAN, High Chief Samuel Isijana, said: “We have set up committee to look at post-election issues. The other group is accusing us that the entire EXCOs are from the South, which is not true. “The National Deputy President is from the North, the Secretary General is from the North and National Treasurer is in the North. So, saying that all the positions are dominated by the Southerners is totally false. “We want to inform the public that the information that the purported group dished out during their meeting in Kano is not true”.  