Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) in Kogi State will henceforth print all their documents at the Government printing press in Lokoja. Commissioner of Information and Communication, Evang. Kingsley Fanwo disclosed this while inspecting facilities at the Kogi State Printing Press. He said with the recent circular from the Office of the Secretary to the State Government, it is no longer permissible for MDAs in the state to seek government’s approval to do their printing jobs elsewhere. Fanwo, who paid a working visit to the state printing press with top management team of the state information sector, said he expects total compliance with the directive as no other decision surpassed that of the state executive council. He said: “The Exco have already resolved that MDAs should not print anything outside anymore and the governor has directed full compliance to the EXCO resolution. “This is already in force and we will ensure we produce quality prints to justify the confidence reposed in the Press by the Government.” While stressing the need for better repositioning of the state press to function optimally, the commissioner said bottlenecks would be removed for enhanced profitability of the investment. He also said his ministry would adopt more effective management strategies to attract good jobs, assuring of instant improvement at the press. “Our printing press is the best in Kogi State and we are prepared to compete. “We are not only waiting for government jobs alone but we are prepared to take over the printing industry in the state. “The era of handling government businesses with levity is over. I urge the management to immediately turnaround the fortunes of the Press and get multimillion jobs in order to shore up the revenue base of government. Corruption at the press will be met with stiff penalties,” he warned. The Government Printer, Mr. Teddy Adegbola, who received the visiting team listed challenges of the press to include inadequate manpower, equipment, office space and operational vehicles.