Moses Emorinken, Abuja Quality and accurate data plays a critical role in increasing awareness and advocacy towards engendering qualitative policy formulation, especially in improving health indices in infant mortality, maternal mortality, etc., in the country. Whether Nigeria will be able to achieve Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030, is highly dependent on qualitative engagements with its citizens and generating accurate data concerning their social demands and needs. The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) Chief of field, Port Harcourt, Guy Yogo, made this known on Thursday in Port Harcourt, during a media dialogue on National Demographic Health Survey (NDHS), SDGs, data and solution journalism. According to him, “We are at a critical point, so much so that we are facing new issues in Nigeria in our demographic growth. Many children today are left behind and we must ensure no child is left behind in his or her right. We have a vision to mobilise resources to promote children’s rights. “Our momentum is geared towards the acceleration of the sustainable development goals (SDGs). We will change the narratives by speaking on the situation of children and putting forth an accurate narrative about our journey, and move to ensure that we achieve our goals. “Data available from the Nigeria Demographic and Health Survey (NDHS), indicates tha we still have a lot of health challenges that needs to be surmounted. However, we are very hopeful we can make it. “For example, under-five mortality is still very high at 132 deaths per 1,000 live births. Also, maternal mortality rate is still high. It is inexplicable that in the 21st century women still lose their lives from child birth”. He further added: “To reduce this trend, we need serious awareness to build coalition about the vision of Nigeria and social demands from communities to improve their rights. “Quality dialogue between policy makers, civil society organizations, communities, children, men, and women etc., will not be possible without the collaboration of the media. We need to accelerate efforts and raise awareness because SDG 2030 is just around the corner”. The Head of Child Rights Information Bureau, Federal Ministry of Information, Mr Olumide Osanyinpeju, in his remark said: “The need to use data figures accurately in the advocacy reports of Development Partners like UNICEF and other Agencies is paramount to the government of the Federation, to guide against contentious issues. “It has become very urgent and important not only to the Government of Nigeria, but also to key Partners and Stakeholders. Against this backdrop, this Media Dialogue is not only timely but also on point. “Both Multiple Indicators Cluster Survey (MICS) and Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) are survey initiatives designed to assist countries, Nigeria inclusive, in filling data gaps for monitoring human development in general and the situation of children and women in particular. “These surveys have been instrumental in strengthening national statistics capacities, highlighting and filling gaps in quality data, monitoring and tracking progress toward national and international development goals like the SDGs and, in identifying emerging issues and disparities among groups in societies. “Collecting quality data is necessary, but not sufficient. Data must also be disseminated in a user- friendly way to ensure that they are understood and used. Data also informs policy decisions and enhance advocacy and public awareness on priority development issues.” 