By Jide Oluwajuyitan  President Buhari needs help. The greatest threat to President Buhari’s legacy is Buhari himself. That he as a former army General, a hero of a civil war, fought to keep Nigeria united, suffers from a messianic complex  behaving most of the time like a monarch and the embodiment of the sovereign power of the nation is not unusual. Unfortunately, his APC party, those in his inner circle who many believe are serving other tendencies and many of the round pegs in square holes who are paid from public purse to protect the president, seem to promote this illusion.  This perhaps explains why President Buhari seems to listen only to President Buhari. Since his election in 2015, none seems to have had the courage to remind President Buhari that we now run a participatory democracy which makes interventions of constituents groups and individuals in political decisions and policies that affect their lives imperative. And when they are not maintaining their loud silence on those many occasions the president shot himself in the leg, they are embarking on vicious attack on those critics including his wife who genuinely care about the legacies of a president who got into power with so much goodwill. When holed up like an emir in Aso rock for six months unable to constitute a cabinet, an exercise that takes less than 24 hours in other participatory democracies, neither APC nor his new confidants his wife claimed had no idea of APC manifesto had the courage to engage the president on what his political opponents regarded as indolence. When it took him almost two and half years to constitute the boards of over 500 small governments he needed to implement his party manifesto and ended up with a list containing names of some dead nominees, sycophants tried to defend the indefensible. When the president’s minister of defence appeared to be blaming victims of herdsmen mindless killings, when the Emir of Kano was prodding Fulani settlers in Benue to embark on insurrection; when a particular governor arrogantly insisted cross-border Fulani herdsmen from other parts of West Africa must be accommodated within RUGA project to be funded with our taxpayers’ money, neither APC, nor the minister of information or any of his special assistants, who did not need to wait for the president’s permission before dissociating him from such indiscreet statements, did so. If anything, they by their in-actions, strengthened the hands of those Buhari political detractors who often call attention to the president’s body language as motivation for unguarded statements and criminal activities of some cross-border immigrants. The president and his men have thus made it more difficult for those who have no reason to doubt his pan-Nigeria agenda to dismiss such parallels. In view of increased spate of mindless killings, kidnapping and banditry in spite of the valiant efforts of the military, the president has ignored the various calls that the current service chiefs who were appointed in July 2015 be allowed to go on their well-deserved retirement after their tour of duty. Under military regulations, their terms of service expired in 2017, but the president has kept them on despite the rule that says “No officer shall be allowed to remain in service after attaining the retirement age of 60 years or 35 years of pensionable service whichever is earlier.” The justification was based on the efforts of the military chiefs in tackling terrorism in the Northeast and addressing other security issues. The then chairman of the Senate Committee on Army, Senator Ali Ndume, supported the move claiming we could not afford to change the military leadership because Nigeria was in a complete state of war In recent months, Nigerians have in view of daring criminal assault by herdsmen on innocent Nigerian subsistence farmers across the nation and resurgence of Boko Haram activities in the northeast renewed the call for the replacement of the service chiefs. The National Assembly have identified with the demand. Last week, the House passed a resolution calling on all of the military service chiefs to resign or be sacked by President Muhammadu Buhari. Earlier, the Senate had also expressed the view that the service chiefs had to go. From newspapers, the call by the two houses is backed by Ohanaeze Ndigbo, the Igbo apex socio-cultural organisation, Afenifere the pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Pan Niger Delta Forum, PANDEF; Christian Association of Nigeria, (CAN) who staged a massive protests over increasing insecurity in some Nigerian cities on Sunday as well as other opinion leaders including the founding member of the Arewa Consultative Forum and Kano politician, Alhaji Tanko Yakassi;, former Provost-Marshal, Nigerian Army, Brigadier-General Idada Ikponmwen (retd).  And the reasons adduced by them range from: the need for new ideas, philosophy and method in the fight against insurgency in the country; the need for the president to listen to the voice of the people by reorganizing the security architecture of country; and the urgent need to remove the service chiefs, who have since reached retirement age in the military and now constitute   themselves into stumbling blocks to career rises of other officers.” Once again, many believe we are in this sorry pass because of the mind-set of the president and hypocrisy of some of his close advisers who seem to care more about security of their position than telling the president the truth he may not want to hear. President Buhari is not a monarch. Even if he humours himself and pretends to be one just like Babangida did when he adorned himself with a borrowed robe of a president after a palace coup, the age of divine rights of kings ended a long time ago. He needs to come to terms that he is an elected president in a participatory democracy, a new value system which rejects nepotism and provincialism as bases for decision -making and embraces bureaucracy, which according to a German sociologist, Max Weber, “constitutes the most efficient and rational way in which human activity can be organized and insists that systematic processes and organized hierarchies are necessary to maintain order, maximize efficiency, and eliminate favoritism”. Destroy bureaucracy, the nation decays. That was exactly what Generals Obasanjo and Murtala Mohammed did to our country in 1975/76. They followed up by destroying the press to complete Nigerian military assault on major institutions of society such as political parties, universities and civil society all of which are critical for society to thrive. The sycophants who are claiming the president as an ex- General is best equipped to manage the military the way he likes are therefore wrong. They seem to underestimate the far reaching implications of undermining morale within the military institution. When Babangida did it, we ended up with “an army of anything is possible” with Generals Abacha, Useni, David Mark and a few other officers without character holding the nation to ransom. It will amount to living in denial to dissociate the current apparent helplessness of the military from general disenchantment, low morale and assault occasioned by political interference and disruption of its bureaucratic system.