Africa, nay Nigeria, has been advised to be proactive by preparing for the work space which will be dominated by artificial intelligence/robotics in not too distant future. This is because the 21 century industrial revolution would inevitably provide the atmosphere that will extinct certain jobs, and place that same responsibility in the hands of technology-inspired robotics. Mr Chimezie Ikeme, Coordinator of BredHub, a firm that provides knowledge for children desirous of learning about Robotics and other new technology, said,  undegraduates, fresh graduates, tutors and teachers in basic and secondary school  need to be equipped with the necessary knowledge about AR/Robotics. He spoke ahead of a five-day train-the trainer programme which BredHub would be facilitating for the aforementioned who are also desirous in acquiring additional knowledge in AI/Robotics. According to him, the essence of the forthcoming exercise was to create more awareness about the fact that AI/Robotic has come to stay; and therefore its knowledge should be propagated among young graduates and teachers for onward trasmission to school children. Said Ikeme:”In the next five years, the work space will be different from what we have today. So what we have today and will last till the next century is AI/Robotics. “The world has moved from industrial revolution 3 which was about developing microchips and going into the moon. We are now in the era of indusial revolution 4 which is applying the microchips that we have to create an artificial intelligence system that will now find solutions to human lives. “Now we have expectation of the world for Africa, 35 per cent of the resources that will help create equilibrium in the management of artificial intelligence has to come from Africa. “America and China have moved on. Europe has also joined them. We must begin to create the awareness now. “We are moving into an era where the first medical operating Robot is out. It will operate you accurately without a doctor. We are moving into an era where you find robot defending your case in court. Most of us are already aware about self-driving cars. However, In Africa, Bredhub stands stronger as vehicle to create this awareness; and we need to start with the children.” The firm’s General Manager Christian Chime, said the training which holds at Federal Palace Hotel, Lagos,is for young graduates and teachers that would be deployed into primary, secondary and tertiary cadres to teach robotics. “For instance, all of us are familiar with smartphones which are supposed to be used in every home; but if you don’t have the technical people to do the installation, there may be a little problem. So in this train-the-trainer, we are going to have speakers from across Lagos and any other parts of the state, as well as young graduates specilaising in science and tech but also want to be useful in the area of teaching artificial intelligence in schools. Bredhub General Manager Christian Chime, described Robotic as a technological revolution, adding that the outfit would encourage children to use it at a young age, so it won’t be strange to them once they get older. Chime said participants will be trained, duly engaged and certified and they can use this certificate to teach robotics in schools. He added that BredHub would offer immediate employment to those who will pass the test, and deploy them to schools nationwide. BredHub Marketing Manager Emem Ntat, spoke on the rationale behind the training. “The essence of this training is that soon, we are going to have the curriculum in schools but we don’t have teachers equipped enough to teach it.  It will be a matter of not being able to give what you have,” she said. She continued: “We want to expand it (robotics) and make it available to more children in Nigeria. We want the children to be programming robot and we give them a model of a real life problem to solve. “We want to make it available to all Nigerian children to solve. We have this hub in Lagos where we train children on different applications of the things they have learned in their classroom. For instance, how do they apply mathematics into changing real life problems? When they graduate how are they actually going to be of benefit to the society? Bredhub Business/Admin. Manager Oluwatobiloba Adeboyejo, said the firm is making effort to partner with those interested to integrate AI/Robotics into the school curriculum.”