AS Igbinedion University Okada (IUO) clocks 20, its Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Lawrence Ezemonyi, said the institution remains committed to academic excellence. He said in an interview that IUO has established centres of Excellence which are already bearing fruits through research and outreach programmes that encourage applications of knowledge. They are: Buratai Centre for Contemporary Security Affairs, Centre for Presidential Studies, Centre for Climate Change and SDGs, Centre for Leadership and Good Governance, Benin Film Academy, Patients Safety Institute. Ezemonyi said the only way to attain global academic reckoning amid thousands of universities globally is to shatter the age long barriers and myths of restricted knowledge and unhealthy self-censorship. The Vice Chancellor said: “The university made it as a matter of policy consciously to undertake initiatives to enhance its students’ life outside classroom work.  We made it mandatory that IUO students are regularly exposed to debate competitions locally, nationally and internationally”. Ezemonyi said IOU has sought collaboration with the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria (MDCN), Council of Legal Education (CLE), Pharmacists Council of Nigeria (PCN), Medical Laboratory Science Council of Nigeria (MLSCN), Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN), Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators of Nigeria (ICSAN), Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN), and  Nigerian Institute of Management (NIM) for the training, certification and induction of students of the university into professional practice with. The university is also in partnership with various institutions of high technical relevance within and outside the country. These include; The Nigerian Army through the Centre for Contemporary Security Affairs, The Nigerian Prisons Service through the Department of International Relations and Strategic Studies, Robert Bosch Stiftung SCRIPT Foundation through the Mass Communication Department, Institute of Strategic Communication and Development, Keffi, Nasarawa State through the Department of Mass Communication. Through its Smart Campus programmes, Ezemonyi said the school is determined to be at the forefront of ICT revolution in the academic sector in Nigeria and in Africa as it currently runs a One-ST (155MB) internet broadband Wi-Fi service on campus as infrastructural support to its ICT drive. From smart digital board through smart classrooms fitted with modern digital teaching aids, to smart hostel rooms, smart recreation facilities and smart walk ways, he said the school has demonstrated its readiness for global technological revolution.