 EYES are on the National Assembly Panel on Constitution Amendment, led by Deputy Senate Leader Ovie Omo-Agege. Will the committee live to expectation? Will it justify public confidence? There is no time frame. But, there is background knowledge. The issues and items are clear. What is in short supply is consensus. The more the country moves away from constitution review, the more it progresses towards unitarism. The more centralisation is entrenched, the more aggrieved and restless stakeholders will push for systematic balkanisation. Therefore, for the fragile nation-state to survive, its federalism must be redesigned, re-conjured or remodelled to reflect collective aspirations and guarantee unity in diversity. The motivation for review is the defective 1999 Constitution, which has continued to lie against itself through the prefix: “We Nigerians…” The dangerous document was imposed on the country in a hurry by the military government and it has continued to wreck incalculable havoc on the beleaguered nation. The unitary constitution may have predisposed Nigeria to state fragility, which may also be a prelude to ultimate state failure. If at the end of the exercise the envisaged alteration, addition or amendment does not foster or enhance “true” federalism, the efforts would have been in vain. It would have amounted to a colossal waste of time, energy, resources and public expectation. Previous amendments had paled into tokenism. They were piecemeal amendments akin to a drop in the ocean. Two core items often being avoided as “no-go areas” are restructuring, which could herald devolution or decentralisation of powers, and national unity. It has been difficult to build cross-regional consensus on vital issues that are germane to the resolution of the national question. Yet, the resolution of the fundamental challenge is critical to peaceful coexistence among the diverse ethnic groups forcefully lumped together by British interlopers. The proposed progression to federalism has often been sacrificed on the altar of mutual suspicion and antagonistic distributive politics. The debate on Sovereign National Conference (SNC) appears to be fading. Pro-restructuring crusaders may have adjusted and become louder in their agitations for national conference, a peculiar talk shop that has also become old-fashioned and boring in Nigeria. The parliament is asserting itself as the representative umbrella with taproots across the nooks and crannies of the country and a substitute to a new conference. Legislators, even in their comfort zones, may have also embraced the reality that while leaders of the geo-political zones tend to subscribe to “one Nigeria,” the terms have never been agreed upon since the demise of the First Republic. The slain Federal Justice Miniser, James Ajibola Ige, posed the question to his generation. “Do you want to continue to live together as Nigeriansin the same country?” The answer by his audience was “yes.” Then, he asked:”How? On what terms?” That “how” was, and is still, the crux of the matter; the basis of togetherness and the kind of constitution that should regulate the supposedly voluntary relationship. Since the Unification Decree enacted by Gen. Thomas Aguiyi-Ironsi banished federalism in 1966, successive governments have failed to correct the monumental and devastating error. Now, a greater error is the pervading feeling that the lopsided federal structure should not be tinkered with because it is to the advantage of a section of the country that has always feared its redesign. This perception is not without justification. There is nothing that suggests, either through presidential body language, public utterances and concrete steps, that a comprehensive overhauling of the jaundiced constitution is a priority to the Federal Government. President Muhammadu Buhari’s predecessor, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, manifested the same ambivalence. He set up a National Conference whose report he was not courageous to implement, blaming his sudden apathy on the imminence of 2015 elections. To that extent, the APC national leader who described the conference as a Greek Gift was vindicated. However, the current government has not fared better, judging by its snail-like speed and approach to constitutional reforms. The subsisting argument is that, if the presidency is determined and the National Assembly is serious, the reports of 2004 and 2014 National Conferences, and the report of the Mallam Nosiru el-Rufai-led All Progressives Congress (APC) Committee on Restructuring can actually be the guide to a new dawn. This approach may also, in the final analysis, be a cost-effective method, instead of holding a repetitive confab, where new issues would not come to the front burner beyond what had been dissected as components of the contentious national question. In moving forward, the Omo-Agege Committee should investigate previous obstacles to amendment. For example, the Bills on the selection of Land Use Act, Devolution of Powers to permit transference of some items from Con current Legislative List to states; Separation of Offices of Attorney-General from Justice Minister and Commissioner, and Independent Candidacy, were shut down by senators in the past. The Omo-Agege Panel has access bundles of proposals on constitutional reforms. If a fresh public hearing is held today, the issues will not be significantly different. They will still revolve around revenue allocation and resource control, the Land Use Act, Petroleum Act, the adoption of six zone structure, reforms of electoral laws, fiscal federalism, and the abolition of what Prof. Itsey Sagay (SAN) described as ‘federal absolutism,’ particularly in the operation of the police, census, mineral resources, labour, trade and industrial relations, registration of business names, electric power.   The amendment may reduce certain patterns of injustice, which in the words of the political scientist, Prof.Dipo Kolawole, have made Nigeria “a federation of an excessively strong central government, supposedly partnered by ridiculously weak 36 states with a Federal Capital Territory, supported by obviously ineffective 774 local governments. All other 801 governments combined are weaker than the Central Government.”
During public hearings and consultative regional meetings between the committee and stakeholdes, the same core issues will be on the table. For example, the derivation principle and resource control are intertwined. What percentage of federal collectable resources, including crude oil, solid minerals and Value Added Tax(VAT), for example , should be given back to their sources? Should states, regions or zones be allowed to exclusively or personally own, exploit and tap the financial benefits of natural resources in their domains and just pay taxes to the Federal Government? The component units may not be able to cope with the power-loaded Federal Government in the future. It is desirable that it should shed weight. What, therefore, should be the role of the Federal Government in agriculture? Who owns the land? Also, what should be the new sharing formula among federal, state and local governments that will reflect their share of constitutional responsibilities? The founding fathers of Nigerian nation, or liberators from colonial rule, subscribed to a just and fair formula, based on principles of derivation (50 percent), need and national interest. It was turned upside down by succeeding regimes. Although there is emphasis on revenue sharing, there is less emphasis on how the revenues are generated from certain communities states and regions. Already, there is an imminent partial devolution of power, particularly policing. Amotekun is instructive. It may be the signpost to state and community policing. Governors who are Chief Security Officers of their states should not rely on the Police Commissioners who only take orders from the distant Police Inspector-General for maintenance of law and order. Indeed, state and community policemen should be recruited from the ethnic groups they are meant to serve, live in the community, speak the language of the people and understand their culture and environment for effective policing. The review committee will have to contend with the agitation for local government autonomy. There are puzzles: Is local government a third tier in Nigeria? Are they not administrative units created by states for ease of administration at the grassroots? Why should they have direct revenue sourcing from the Federal Government? What remains of the state when local governments are taken away?Why should councils be listed in the constitution? Why should the Senate retain the power of listing? If these proposals are painstaking considered by the committee, and they make their report to the National Assembly, then, there will be a ray of hope. If the parliament can develop them into bills and pass the progressive bills in the interest of “true” federslism, then, the exercise is meaningful and worthwhile.
The last hurdle: will President Buhari has the courage to assent to the bill’s?