During a visit to The Nation’s corporate headquarters in Lagos, top officials of the Society for Family Health bared their minds on how the country can get its health sector to work, reports Associate Editor ADEKUNLE YUSUF  No country has ever recorded giant strides in the health sector without first resolving the knotty issue of how to provide universal healthcare coverage – through compulsory health insurance – for all its citizens. That was the verdict by Dr.  Omokhudu Idogho, Managing Director, Society for Family Health (SFH), a non-profit organisation, committed to delivering selfless services to humanity, especially the poor and vulnerable throughout the country. While leading other senior SFH officials during an official visit to The Nation’s corporate headquarters in Lagos, Idogho, who was appointed Managing Director in January last year, stressed that mustering the political will to achieve compulsory health insurance coverage for all Nigerians holds the master key towards addressing the multifarious crises that combine to make quality healthcare services inaccessible to many Nigerians. “We have a new strategic plan now, which is focused on universal health coverage for Nigerians. We are saying that any country that has made progress in the health sector, they must have a system that protects the weak and vulnerable. We cannot continue to say as a country to say the very big things without dealing with the foundation, which is health for everybody. “For us, historically we did silo projects; we did family planning; we did HIV/AIDS; we were in reproductive and maternal health; we did big malaria programmes. But we have put all that in a new strategy as a big ask we all want from the Nigerian government so that every single Nigerian, irrespective of socio-economic status, must get a minimum cover of healthcare. That is what will define our common humanity. Otherwise, we would be no less than animals; even animals do look after their own. Then, why can’t we look after our own? That is what we do in very deep partnerships with others,” he said. Idogho added that Nigeria, having missed out on many global targets in the last decade, should be looking forward to achieving great strides in the next 10 years to improve its human development index. “As we look forward to 2030, some of the little gains that we achieved last year (right now we have dealt with polio) were all based on partnerships. We feel that as SFH, we need to start this decade by reconnecting with the media very strongly and passionately. We want the media to be fully more involved in health reportage. We want the media to pick all the key, critical issues and talk about the politics around health – whether we are talking about universal health coverage, basic healthcare or whether we are taking a particular interest in adolescent issues,” he said. In a country with about 27 per cent of its population as adolescents, he said he was sure a lot would go wrong if this huge segment is left behind in the scheme of things – without anyone thinking and planning for them. Although he said FSH has about 30 unique projects currently going on in the country, Idogho believes more still needs to be done in the area of health for the adolescents in the country. “If you look at our demography, 27 per cent of the population is adolescents. That is huge. Who is thinking for them? Who is planning for their health? The society presumes that they are young and fit and that there is no need to worry about them. That is wrong.” While dissecting the crisis of paucity of medical professionals and fake drug menace, the FSH boss said it is obvious that the preponderant number of people have faith in the community pharmacists who are more popular in the rural areas where there are no doctors, despite the fact that the healthcare structure in the country does not give recognition to such practitioners.  “The data we have is that 67 per cent of Nigerians patronise the local chemists as they call the community pharmacists when they have malaria, cough etc. We are saying that is clearly something we need to do something about. We cannot achieve universal health coverage if we do not integrate where people get care back into the system and then focus on quality of what those people are doing.” On the need for Nigeria to take care of its adolscents, Fatima Mohammed, Project Director, Adolescents 360, which started in January 2016, FSH has trained adolescent girls and their mothers to enhance sexual and reproductive health and also to strengthen the relationship between mother and child. According to her, the A360 project has undertaken the task of counselling adolescent girls about their reproductive health, use of contraceptives to prevent unplanned pregnancies and their sexuality. The project is running in Lagos, Ogun, Osun, Oyo, Edo, Delta, Kaduna and Nasarawa states, where youth-friendly providers are trained to enable the girls open up to them. Many sexually active adolescent girls are counselled about how to prevent unplanned pregnancy and sexually transmitted infections. Mohammed stated that youths need information that would better their lot. “Whether you give them or not, they look for it – through their phones and friends. From there, they put it together, rightly or wrongly, they apply it. We found girls who don’t have sex but because they want to belong to the group of happening girls, they engage in sexual activities. While these girls say they trust their mums, unfortunately, moms don’t talk to them; so we discuss with mothers to build their capacity to be able to talk to their daughters themselves about anything, including sexuality. ‘’Young people want immediate results to everything; this is what brain scientists call ‘immediacity’ usually without thinking about the consequences. This has to do with their age and brain function at that time,” she said. Idogho, who declared that “SFH is a one hundred per cent Nigerian organisation working in a space generally populated by international organisations,” also alluded to the strength of SFH, saying: “We stand out because of the unique way we were formed.” The NGO was formed by three distinguished Nigerians 35 years ago – Justice Ifeyinwa Nzeako, Prof. Olikoye Ransome-Kuti (late), Mallam Dahiru Wali, the first pharmacist from Northern Nigeria. Appalled by the poor state of affairs in the country’s medical sector, the three Nigerians opted to join hands to address the problems, believing that the number of women dying from childbirth-related issues. Unlike most NGOs where the founders automatically assume the headship or management, Idogho said the founders of FSH operated behind the scene and set up a strong corporate governance structure that has stood the test of time for more than three decades. Besides Idogho, and Mohammed, also in the FSH team were Michael Alagbile, a pharmacist and Head of Field Operations for Integrate E project, one of the major projects of FSH; Bolaji Oladejo, a pharmacist and Lagos State Manager  Integrate E project; Oyebukola Tomori-Adeleye, innovation and partnership specialist for A360 Project; Joy Egbe, also a pharmacist, and Damilola Olofinjana.