 To strengthen health laboratory systems in the country, the registrar and CEO of Medical Laboratory Science Council of Nigeria (MLSCN), Dr. Tosan Erhabor, has said the regulatory body will be rolling out a policy in June this year on quality management system to laboratories in Nigeria to screen unqualified personnel. Erhabor said this during the 14th annual public health series/national induction of fellows, which held in Lagos recently. The two-day event was initiated by the Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists of Nigeria (AMLSN) to create awareness among the populace about developments in the Nigeria especially in health sector. According to him, there will be a minimum requirement for any lab to practise in Nigeria, both public and private. He stressed that the vision to be a world acclaimed regulatory agency driving the culture of quality and efficient health laboratory care to the public and ensuring high academic standards in training institutions is not negotiable. “We are pursuing quality services by regulations and accreditation of all laboratories in Nigeria. We want to be sure that whatever we are producing meets international standard. So, any lab that keys into our quality assurance, we can vouch for its results and Nigerians can also get the best of the results. The state of laboratory is not where it supposed to be, but as a regulator, we continue working to see that there is a way forward. Years ago, the issue of diagnosis of Lassa fever in Nigeria was not there; we usually travelled abroad for diagnosis. But today we have laboratories in Nigeria that can diagnose various kinds of diseases,” he said.  According to him, about 10 facilities are ISO-accredited and the goal is to have more than 30 facilities that have ISO in the next four to five years. He added that the body has been inspecting laboratories across the state and quack persons found will be charged to court. Erhabor also advised the younger generation of medical laboratory scientists to contribute to the health sector and become future entrepreneurs in their chosen practice. “Young scientists have to think outside the box. They need to solve problems and help contribute to the health sector in Nigeria. It is not that when you finish, you start looking for white-collar job. The medical laboratory scientists are the core people in achieving universal health, but the challenge is poor funding of the sector and secondly the players and policy makers deviate from the policy in Nigeria,” he said. Also, while speaking on the theme, ‘Enterprise Opportunities: National Health and Economy,’ the AMLSN National President, Dr. Bassey Enya Bassey, noted that entrepreneurs are change agents in the society who adopt a mission to create and sustain economic value. Bassey added that entrepreneurial training would serve as an incubator for public health innovation and enterprise.