 Okeagbe, Akoko, a  sleepy community which is the headquarters of Akoko Northwest Local Government Area of Ondo State witnessed an unpreceded array of personalities at the weekend, who turned out for the funeral of the principal emeritus of their  oldest secondary school. The remains of the late  Principal of the school, Chief  Gary Gargiulo, were laid  to rest after  a farewell service followed by a fund raising for facilities at Ajuwa Grammar School. The late Gargiulo  was the Principal of the school between 1963 and 1978 during which he devoted his life to humanity service. He made the school one of the best in all-round  education  in the old Western Region and later Ondo State. Fondly called GG, the  Italian naturalised Briton, died on December 2 last year at 87. He was cremated on January 3  in Hove, the United Kingdom (UK). Gargiulo’s ashes arrived at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Ikeja, Lagos from the UK on February 10. They were brought back to the country on February 10 and  were received by the old students association led by the President,  Rear  Admiral Samuel Alade (rtd). It was Gargiulo’s wish that at death his body should be  cremated and his ashes buried at his home in Oke-Agbe. The white casket covered with the green-white-green flag arrived on the school premises at 11am and was received by old students. An interdenominational service was organised by the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Akoko North West Local Government branch. The old students wore multi-colour Ankara fabric. In his almost one-hour homily at the interdenominational service held at the main field of Ajuwa Grammar School, Oke-Agbe, the Bishop of Akoko Anglican Diocese, Rev. J. O. Bada, eulogised Gargiulo, describing him as an angel, an apostle, a messenger and a humanist. He said: “He was a sign that God gave to our generation. The likes of GG come once in a century.” The cleric said he devoted his life to the service to  humanity. He said: “GG was a man God called and sent to the world to mould people’s lives. I call him a messenger of God and a sign that God gave to our generation.” He described life as a journey that had a beginning and an end. “Many regarded GG as a humanist, a philosopher as well as a teacher,” Rev. Bada said. He thanked God for granting Oke-Agbe community the grace to host GG for 15 years, which gave him the opportunity to dispense what God gave him. The cleric said GG gave his best for the present and coming generations. He urged those who benefitted from the assignment Gargiulo had from heaven, which opened ways for many people, to continue to appreciate him even in death by being good to others. Aregbesola hailed GG, who he described as his late father’s  family friend. He commended him for his selfless service to humanity, especially in areas of sports promotion, generosity and human development. He said the 15 years Gargiulo spent at Ajuwa Grammar School was a golden era. Aregbesola promised to support everything done to immortalise the late Gargiulo, saying he would be responsible for 10 per cent of whatever they raised in the endowment fund launching in his honour. Rear Admiral  Alade (rtd), described GG as a man with a high sense of discipline. He said: “Our moments with him were great.” Admiral Alade advised old students and others who valued the contributions of the late former head teacher to contribute to the endowment fund in his honour. The fund launch followed the farewell service and  interment . GG arrived Nigeria on January 5, 1960. He worked briefly at Igbobi College, Yaba, Lagos before moving to Oke-Agbe. He gave out his house to the school till he died. Born on August 13, 1932 in Poet Vale, UK to an Italian father and a British mother, GG attended the University of Cambridge where he graduated with a Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) degree in Natural Science, Physics/Geology, after which he obtained his Masters of Arts (M.A.) in the same discipline. At the ceremony  were some of the old students, including the   Minister of State for Niger Delta, Chief  Tayo Alasoadura, Chief Solomon Oladunni, a retired Mobil Director, Dr. Tunji Abayomi, a lawyer/politician, Prof. Sola Aliu, Lagos State Commissioner for Information Mr. Gbenga Omotoso, Member of The Punch  Editorial Board, Mr  Simon Ekpe, a former Editor and Public Relation expert, Mr Steve Ilu, traditional rulers, among others. Top on the  event list  are Minister of Interior Rauf Aregbesola, the Deji of Akure Oba Ogunlewer Aladetoyinbo  among others   