By Femi Macaulay WHEN a traditional ruler becomes a puncher, it is sure to attract public attention. Ironically, a royal peace meeting in Osogbo, Osun State, on February 14, ended in violence. The Oluwo of Iwo, Oba Abdulrasheed Akanbi, allegedly assaulted and wounded another traditional ruler, Agbowu of Ogbagbaa, Oba Sikirulahi Akinropo. “The meeting was not the first we would have,” according to Oba Akinropo. “The former Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG) (Leye Oyebade) once called us for such a meeting. The then AIG told us the police would only resolve criminal cases, but as a Yoruba man, he urged us to settle the matter at the palace of Oluwo of Iwo. It followed a petition against us (some traditional rulers) by Oluwo. But all the royal fathers that Oluwo alleged were selling land in his domain realised that the security situation didn’t favour us. So, we resolved to use the chieftaincy hall at the Iwo Local Government Secretariat for the meeting and we made provision for adequate security at the venue. “We were seated already at the venue when suddenly Oluwo along with his drummers and some thugs arrived at the venue. “The policemen that stood guard at the entrance told Oluwo he could not enter the venue with thugs and drummers but he insisted on doing so. They all entered and we allowed them in because we might be harmed. About 30 of us (monarchs from Iwo, Olaoluwa and Ayedire) left the venue through the back door. “Immediately we left the place, the then AIG arrived at the premises. After sensing the situation around the premises and the fact that he did not meet us on our seats, the AIG also left.” The drama continued. Oba Akinropo said: “The former AIG wanted to call for another peace meeting before he was transferred but he could not do so. Then the present AIG, Bashir Makama, came on board. He also decided to continue with the peace meeting and wrote to us. He invited us to his office for another meeting on Friday. “We all obliged him. At the meeting, he told us that being the custodians of our culture and leaders, we should allow peace to reign. Oluwo then stood up to talk and said, as the leader of all Obas in Ayedire, Olaoluwa and the remaining towns in the area, other Obas were selling lands and he didn’t want that to happen anymore. “But we told him that the lands we sold belonged to our towns and not Iwo. The Olu of Ile-Igbo Kingdom said he only sold lands in Ile-Igbo. Onigege also said the same thing, and I also said the lands I sold belonged to Ogbagbaa, my domain. “Alhaji Kamoru, the Chairman of Iwo Local Government Area, sat between me and him (Oluwo). Those present at the meeting were Officer-in-Charge (Legal), Osun State Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, representative of the state Commissioner for Lands, AIG and the Obas Oluwo wrote a petition against. “The Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, while speaking, said since the issue had to do with land, we should rather go to court instead of a peace meeting. He said he would report the matter to the governor. “But Oluwo said should they do that, they were calling for war. I did not even see it coming; he just sprang forward from his seat, and asked why I was speaking while he was talking. “He left his seat and the Iwo Local Government Chairman was trying to restrain him, but he pushed him away and started punching me where I sat. It was the AIG that came to my rescue by pulling him away from me.” Oba Akanbi said he had acted in self-defence. His media secretary, Alli Ibrahim, in a statement said the assaulted monarch, “while making his speech called Oba Akanbi unprintable names, pointing his staff of office at Oluwo while an attempt to stick the staff in his eyes was defended.” Oba Akanbi himself said: “I did not punch Agbowu of Ogbaagba, although there was altercation that almost resulted in exchange of blows, but that didn’t happen at all… I did not touch Agbowu of Ogbaagba, although he was aggressive and we almost had altercation but I did not punch him…If I am that boxing king you people are calling me, I should have done that in Iwo and not in Osogbo.” “That’s an outright lie. He was just trying to defend himself,” Oba Akinropo stated. “I have been a traditional ruler for 24 years and I know the worth of the institution I represent. Have you ever heard of an Oba exchanging blows or fighting? I can’t be part of that madness; that was why I held my peace. If I also had fought back, I would have constituted a nuisance.” In contrast, Oba Akanbi became Oluwo of Iwo in November 2015. He was 47 at the time, a Canada-based contractor and the Chief Executive Officer of Prince Global Nigeria Limited. So, what happened? How did Oba Akinropo get a cut on his face? Oba Akanbi stands accused of assault. Is he also a liar? Did he have to lie because he had done something dishonourable? There is no doubt that the incident is bad for the image of traditional rulers. The Osun State Council of Traditional Rulers, in an emergency meeting held at Osun State Government Secretariat, Abere, presided over by Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, decided to suspend Oba Akanbi for six months, meaning he can’t attend the council’s meetings during the period. Interestingly, the Orangun of Ila, Oba Wahab Adedotun, told journalists that Oba Akanbi’s suspension was not because he allegedly assaulted Oba Akinropo, but  because  of his conduct towards other traditional rulers in Yorubaland, including the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, Alake of Egbaland,  Oba Adedotun Aremu Gbadebo,  and the Ooni of Ile-Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi. The council also set up a committee to further investigate the matter involving Oluwo and Obas in Iwo land. Oba Akanbi’s reaction to his suspension, which he contemptuously described as “audio,” suggests that the council can bark but can’t bite. According to him, “He was never suspended as Oluwo of Iwoland. Osun State Traditional Council has only recommended his suspension from the council meetings and activities for six months on the guise that his conduct (been too flashy, stylish, human rights defender and swagging) and that is even subject to Governor’s approval. This clarification is important for the public notice!” As things stand, the ball is in the governor’s court. 