 We are surrounded by people who see calcium-carbide as worthless while busy tagging bad influencers as as ‘real assets.’ Just like calcium-carbide (a precious stone), only few people knows its worth. Among the few, fewer know how to use it to their advantage. Our army of youths today have chosen the lifestyle of our modern celebrity pop stars. They do everything in their power just to imitate their (popstars) lifestyle. They neglect other good people: tycoons and investors turning the page across other sectors, and through whom their lives can also improve by simply imitating them. I have seen lots of folks who live a millionaire’s lifestyle on a thousand income; borrowed all sorts of items just to look real. Obviously, they do, cute and rich; but deep inside, starvation is their next of kin. What a shame! “Many folks are doing perfectly okay, until they start imitating ‘popstars many of which I strongly feel, live their lives on mortgage.” Many dive into ocean of poverty and depression all in the name of imitation that eventually ruins their expectations. They make their banks accounts weep after they realise they can no longer meet up their sprawling expenses. Only few folks can confidently differentiate good debt from bad debt; only the wise men live below their means while striving to strike gold.  We live in a world where music stars’ are more recognised than those in the business circuit. We live in a world where knowledge is seen as worthless. We focus on scraps and end up losing the real deals. We exaggerate on matters that shouldn’t be discussed in daylight. If all these continue, it would be the end of the beginning. Many are millionaires on social media page; yet find it hard to afford a plate of food in real life. . Unfortunately, the real socialist find it hard to get huge fans on social media; while the so called rap stars got more. For instance, Jeff Bezos, an entrepreneur and one of the world richest, has less than two million followers on instagram. Check out our pop stars and do the calculation.  Point to study I’m not saying pop stars are all bad; Honestly, not all. But, choosing someone who find it hard to inspire you greatly is a total waste. “Walk with the wise and become wise, for a companion of fools suffers harm” (Proverb 13:20); “When God bestows hikma (wisdom) on someone, that person is indeed granted an immense source of goodness” (Quran 2.269). Let me end this with this quote: “No man on earth is perfect; but, the ability to transform yourself from bad to good is a little closer to perfection.” 