More persons have been killed in the ongoing cult war between eiye and aiye confraternities in Benin City, Edo state. At Sokponba road, son of a Benin Chief was shot and rushed to the hospital where doctors are battling to save him. Several other persons have been killed in different parts of the state especially in Murtala Mohammed Way, Second East circular and other areas. A headless body suspected to be related to cult killing was Tuesday morning found at Third Junction by Ikpoba Slope. However, to curb the cult killings, it was gathered the Inspector General of Police drafted a special squad to the state. The Special Squad was said to have contacted a former Edo Commissioner of Police, Chris Ezike, to help them tackle cultism in Edo. Ezike once led a special squad to Edo where cult leaders including those serving in the then administration of Adams Oshiomhole were arrested, paraded and detained for several days. The intervention of Ezike saw many cultists fled the state and cult related killings stopped. Sources said the Special Squad has begun raiding of black spots. Meanwhile, the leader of the deadly gang that kidnapped Managing Director of Ogba Zoological Garden, Mr. Andy Ehanire, has been arrested by men of the Anti-Kidnapping Squad of the Edo State Police command. Seven other gang members were earlier arrested. Ehanire was abducted in 2017 and the kidnappers killed three policemen who were on guard at the Zoo. The name of gang leader was given as Lucky Asaba Alebi. The 48 years old and was arrested in Sapele, Delta State. It was gathered that the gang collected N65m as ransom. Police sources said some soldiers who were deployed to track them in the creek were killed when their military Patrol boat capsized. The source said Lucky told interrogators that he has two wives and eight children even as he begged for mercy saying he has repented and was now a church worker. Police said he would be charged to court for kidnapping, armed robbery, murder, unlawful possession of firearms and cultism. Edo Police Spokesman, DSP Chidi Nwabuzor confirmed the arrest of Lucky and the deployment of IGP Special Squad to Edo.