Union Bank of Nigeria (UBN) Plc has launched its special women’s banking proposition aimed at enabling women for enduring success. The women special banking proposition, known as Alpher, provides tailored support for the individual woman, women-owned and women-led businesses. Women can benefit from a wide range of financial services, business and career development opportunities and lifestyle discounts. The launch themed ‘Take Your Best Shot’ featured special guests including UBN’s chairman, Beatrice Hamza Bassey and UBN’s Chief Executive Officer, Emeka Emuwa, as well as the head of the bank’s retail bank and digital, Lola Cardoso among other executives of the bank. Alpher was initially unveiled at the bank’s 2019 International Women’s Day celebration, and has since then been developed into a fully-fledged proposition, set to change the face of banking for Nigerian women. Speaking at the launch, Emuwa, said gender equality and women empowerment were important to the bank citing the bank’s track record of supporting women. According to him, Alpher is a natural next step for the bank and with it, the bank will focus on empowering women across all segments of the Nigerian society with tailored financial services and other benefits that improve the quality of their lives. Cardoso reminded women of the need to take their best shot at attaining their dreams in order to live a fulfilled and impactful life. She noted that the launch of Alpher was in line with the bank’s long-standing commitment to enable enterprise and empower women, their businesses and careers. “We are pleased to introduce Alpher, our unique banking proposition developed to create an enabling environment for women as they pursue their dreams and aspirations,” Cardoso said. Union Bank recently secured $200 million in funding via a partnership with Atlas Mara Limited from Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC), United States government’s development finance institution. The funding is to drive investments in digitilisation, on-lending to small and medium-scale enterprises (SMEs), and funding for women-led businesses. Union Bank has a history of showing support to women businesses and enterprises. In 2019 to reiterate its commitment to women, the bank awarded 40 scholarships to women entrepreneurs to build their capacity through the Enterprise & Leadership Program (ELP) organised by China Europe International Business School (CEIBS) in partnership with Leading Ladies Africa.