By Musa Odoshimokhe  Senator Gbenga Obadara has poured encomiums on the late Ogun State politician, Dipo Dina, who died 10 years ago, saying he left an outstanding legacy for generations to come. Obadara, who spoke at the launching of the Otunba Dipo Dina Foundation in Lagos, in memory of the departed politician, said friends, associates and the people of Ogun State have lost a rare gem with his death. He said Dina’s welfarist inclination defined the outlook of the foundation and that the scheme would assist the children of the needy and indigent students, who have difficulties receiving post-primary and tertiary education. Obadara said the late Dina mentored many politicians who are in the main stream politics, contributing to local and national development. He said: “We are establishing the foundation based on Dina’s political philosophy which is to improve on the literacy level of the people, particularly to read and write in Yoruba. “If you take away the mother tongue of upcoming generations, the reason for their cultural existence will be lost forever, because they will not be able to trace their history.  Therefore, the availability of training hub under the umbrella of a monarch for easy reach and cultural heritage will be promoted.” The lawmaker said Dina was instrumental to the height he attained in politics, stressing that he was committed to the cause he believed in. Obadara added: “He thought ahead of his time. God really endowed him early in life. He was instrumental to my political sojourn and if not for him, I would not have attained this height. But, by virtue of the encouragement I am a senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria today. “God has a way of rewarding people for what they have done; the children are doing well in their chosen fields and education. So, what he sowed, his children are reaping right now.” Dina’s wife, Adenike, said 10 years down the lane, God has been gracious to the family. She said the Dipo Dina Foundation would keep the legacy of the politician alive. She said: “I want to thank God for keeping us alive and His grace over us is overwhelming. We are laying the foundation to keep his legacy and his philosophy alive. His legacy have not waned even in death. The foundation will reach out to people in the rural community, so that they can be trained in the use of mother tongue as means of preserving our culture.” 