Oral diseases are one of the most prevalent health challenges in the country, with poor awareness about oral wellness, dearth of dentists and absence of sustainable strategies for national preventive and therapeutic oral health services fuelling the crisis, reports MOSES EMORINKEN  Although oral infection is not considered as a life-threatening issue by many people, it has been shown to be strongly associated with high mortality. According to reports from the World Health Organisation (WHO), 3.5 billion people were estimated to have suffered from oral diseases worldwide in 2017, with untreated dental caries (tooth decay) being among the most prevalent non-communicable diseases. In the Global Burden of Disease Study 2017, WHO said most oral diseases and conditions share modifiable risk factors with the leading non-communicable diseases such as cardiovascular diseases, cancer, chronic respiratory diseases and diabetes. Oral health is a key indicator of overall health, well-being and quality of life. It encompasses a range of diseases and conditions that includes, but not limited to dental caries, periodontal disease, tooth loss, oral cancer, oral manifestations of HIV infection, oro-dental trauma, noma and birth defects such as cleft lip and palate. According to experts, the mouth is the litmus for a healthy body, not just because it is the passage for meals, but more importantly, because it can show vital symptoms of nutritional deficiencies in an individual. Therefore, whether a person is five years old or 75, the subject of oral health remains germane to overall health and wellness of every individual. It is sad that many Nigerians are not aware that the mouth needs to be healthy for their whole body to be healthy. The situation in Nigeria is worse, especially for adults, as most suffer from the accumulation of untreated oral diseases. Millions with untreated caries have cavities and suppuration, yet planners continue to overlook oral diseases, despite their significant impact on cost and quality of life. In Nigeria, the silent epidemic of oral diseases rages because of many factors. Right from an early age, people are taught that proper oral health begins and ends with maintaining healthy teeth. With this, many people grow up with the mindset that the simple acts of brushing and flossing are enough to guarantee oral health; yet, dental experts insist that oral health is much more than having clean teeth. Dentists say oral health involves having the gums and their supporting tissues, the palate, the lining of the mouth and throat, the tongue, the lips, the salivary glands, the chewing muscles, the nerves, and the bones of the upper and lower jaws. Impact of oral infections Recent research has indicated possible associations between chronic oral infections and diabetes, heart and lung disease, stroke, and low birth weight or premature births. In other words, oral health refers to the health of a person’s mouth and, ultimately, supports and reflects the health of his or her entire body. Although advances in research and technology have improved the status of oral health in Nigeria, especially with the development of dental implants and the refinement of dental materials and treatment techniques, millions of Nigerians still experience tooth loss and gingivitis by middle age. Although largely preventable, dental caries and periodontal disease are the two biggest threats to oral health, and are among the most common chronic diseases in Nigeria. Dental caries is said to be the most common chronic disease in children, while the most common cause of tooth loss among adults is untreated periodontal disease. The President, Nigerian Dental Association, Dr. Evelyn Eshikena, said oral health can have a huge impact on people – physically and psychologically; it overwhelmingly influences how people grow, look, talk, chew, taste food and socialise as well as their self-esteem. Severe tooth decays detract from children’s quality of life because it causes severe pain, discomfort, disfigurement, acute and chronic infections, and eating and sleep disruption. It also leads to high risk of hospitalisation, huge out-of-pocket expenses, and loss of school days with a consequent reduction in their ability to learn. “Oral infections can cause gangrenous infection of the mouth like noma, which is a disease that result from poor oral hygiene and nutrition. Tobacco chewing or smoking can bring about oral cancers. Other factors can equally cause oral cancer. The most common infection people get is what is called gingivitis (inflammation of the gum). When nothing is done to improve on oral care, it gets worse and progresses to what we call Periodontitis, which is inflammation of the gums and supporting structures of the teeth. It is one of the most common human diseases, and can lead to eventual tooth loss.” Encouraging a culture of prevention Prevention is not only better than cure; it saves time, money and preserves lives. However, for many people, the mindset of preventive approach to their health is very alien because of the mentality that – “if it’s not broken, don’t fix it.” So, experts laments that many Nigerians prefer to wait until the time their health has nearly failed before seeking health care. In Eshikena’s words: “In this part of the world, we have so many things to juggle with, and the average person has so many things competing for attention and priority. So you find that a lot of them don’t take health matters as a priority. People wait until their health gets worse because we don’t have a culture of preventive health care. All these are happening because there is a perceived feeling of high cost for medical services. So, they believe if they are not down with a problem, why should they go and find out if the problem is there or not. If people know that prevention helps to improve their future health situation, they probably would adopt the act of visiting the hospital or seeking dental services. “Another reason is that huge out-of-pocket funding. In Nigeria, insurance coverage is not optimum yet, and not many people are covered. So, people will rather put their monies into other things. By the time the government makes national health insurance compulsory and people are receptive to it, people will begin to take preventive health more seriously. “As an organisation, we are looking at a situation in Nigeria where we will have primary health care (PHC) centres integrating oral health into their own activities. We also want a situation where we could have a dental health unit in each of those PHCs. We are advocating that there should be at least one dental clinic in each local government area in the country. If each state has this, then, we will be able to take dental health closer to majority of the people because we have the majority of people suffering from poor oral hygiene in the rural areas and hinterlands. If oral health is integrated in the PHCs, the dentist can give oral education to patients when they come in, take care of emergency tooth extractions etc. “Primary services that can be rendered for the good of the people should be rendered in PHCs. It is only when things are more complicated that they should be directed to secondary and tertiary hospitals. Primary healthcare centres serve emergency purposes, and dental conditions can be emergencies. The fact that one is poor doesn’t mean one shouldn’t have the knowledge of basic oral hygiene. People who cannot afford the modern materials for cleaning of the mouth can even use traditional means of mouth cleaning like chewing sticks, charcoal etc. Poverty in itself does not cause poor oral hygiene. However, it has a way to relate with poor education, awareness and enlightenment. Education and awareness goes a very long way when we talk of oral hygiene, and also helps to avert very serious and grave disease at its early stages.” Dearth of dentists in the country Recently, the Federal Ministry of Health hinted that it will be implementing the 2020 National Oral Health Policy, which aims to reduce the rate of oral disease among Nigerians. The policy considers the political, cultural, and economic reasons that affect the state of oral health in Nigeria. Although the implementation of this policy is still nascent, more efforts and political will need to be put in place to make it a reality for the good of Nigerians. However, with the huge dearth of dentists in the country to cater for Nigeria’s teeming population, reducing the preponderance of oral diseases and fatalities may prove difficult. Eshikena told The Nation that there are more ‘quacks’, that is, those who are not trained as dentists than the qualified and trained dentists in the country. “At present in Nigeria, we have about 4,000 dentists. However, talking about recommendation as to the numbers needed, WHO does not want to give a recommended number like they do for medical doctors because of the nature of the works dentists perform. We only want a situation in which dentists can always be there to take care of patients. “Also, allied detal professionals are more in number because there are more of such schools producing allied dental professionals such as dental technology, dental therapists, etc. There is an uneven spread of dentists, as most are resident in urban centres, while there is a huge deficiency of dentists in the rural areas. We find that those that are not trained as dentists tend to fill in the gaps because the average man does not know the difference between the different professionals. A lot of patients have lost their lives due to some of the complications that could have arisen from the allied dental professionals not knowing what to do at the right time. “We are advocating that if the government can integrate dental or oral health into primary health and provide at least one dental unit in different primary health centres, then will well be on our way to reduce the scourge of oral diseases and infections. You will be shocked to know that in some parts of the country, there are only one or two dentists in the whole of their health facilities. You find out that when these dentists are not around, the allied dental professionals do the job, and with that you can get bad result. “Sometimes last month, in Gombe State, a student of one of the higher institutions died. He had tooth problems, was attended to, and unfortunately lost his life. There were rumors that the student died in the care of a dentist. That is not true. It happened that the personnel that attended to the student was a therapist not a dentist. This is the more reason we need more dentists in the country, because in the absence of dentists, most hospital and health institutions tend to use allied dental professionals. We want the government to pay more attention and spend more funds on dental are in the country.” What the individual can do At the individual level, people are admonished to practise good oral hygiene by always brushing their teeth twice a day with a fluoride toothpaste, cleaning between your teeth once a day with floss or another interdental cleaner, and replacing toothbrush every three or four months. Also, eating a balanced diet and limiting between-meal snacks is very important. Always remember to make regular dental check-ups a priority. Maintaining healthy teeth and gums is a life-long commitment. The earlier a person learns proper oral hygiene habits such as brushing, flossing, and limiting your sugar intake, the easier it will be to avoid costly dental surgeries, procedures, and long-term health challenges. Finally, tobacco use, alcohol consumption and unhealthy diets high in free sugars, are major causes of oral conditions, especially oral cancer.