The jobs market is constantly evolving, following technological disruptions. How can youths improve their employment chances? A firm, 1st CRT Management Service and the Lagos State government, have organised a workshop to explore solutions to the problem, writes ROBERT EGBE.  When Folayemi Olaitan began registration for a work conference last November, she and her team at 1st CRT Management Service hoped to see about 500 unemployed youths with a mindset of re-orientation and skills training programme to show interest. The feedback they got from the online registration far surpassed their expectations. “Over 104,000 youths indicated interest in the programme. It was incredible,” Mrs. Olaitan, 1st CRT’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO), told The Nation. She said this suggested that there is a multitude of young adults in Lagos eager to acquire bankable skills or find work, but that the vehicles for acquiring those skills were limited in a rapidly changing jobs market.  Unemployment problem The idea of a workforce conference could not have come at a better time. As Olaitan observed, unemployment is a challenge in one of Africa’s foremost economies: Lagos. According to the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF), almost four million Nigerians were out of jobs in 2017 alone, with Lagos State having the highest number of unemployed youths. But unemployment is not a ‘Lagos’ problem. Globally, the challenge of finding work is a formidable one, especially with jobs market disruptions caused by technology. A June, 2019 study from Oxford Economics, entitled: “How Robots Change the World”, suggested that within the next 11 years, there  could be 14 million robots to work in China alone. Conversely, that would be millions of humans out of work. Thankfully, the Nigerian economy may not be as severely affected because of its low level of industrialisation. Nevertheless, the National Bureau of Statistics’ (NBS)’s most recent figures provide insight into the scale of the problem across the country. The Bureau’s data showed that the proportion of Nigerians under 35 in full-time jobs has dropped consistently since 2014. Youth unemployment and under-employment were 55.4 per cent in third quarter of 2018, leaving more than half of the country’s largely youthful population idle most of the time. According to the NBS, unemployment rate increased to 23.10 per cent in the third quarter of 2018 from 22.70 per cent  in the second quarter of 2018. It averaged 12.31 per cent from 2006 until 2018, reaching an all-time high of 23.10 per cent in the third quarter of 2018 and a record low of 5.10 per cent in the fourth quarter of 2010. The top five states with the highest unemployed population are Rivers (1,673,991), Akwa Ibom (1,357,754), Kano (1,257,130), Lagos (1,088,352) and Kaduna with 940,480. However, Lagos reported the lowest rate of 14.6 per cent during the reference quarter, among these five states. Lagos also recorded the highest gains in net full time employment between Q3 2017 and Q2 2018, by adding 740,146 net full time jobs to its economy.  Work Conference 2020 But the Lagos State government is seeking new ways of lowering the unemployment figures even further. Last year, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu launched the Eko Job Centre initiative. The quest for a healthy jobs market, among other reasons, was why Lagos State bought into Olaitan’s idea. The programme Olaitan spoke of was the Work Conference 2020 (TWCNG2020) organised in partnership with the Lagos State Ministry of Wealth Creation and Employment, tagged: “Rethinking Education and the Future of Work”. One of its aims was to reduce unemployment by training youths in leadership and modern employability skills. It also engaged recent graduates and young employees on employment and career advancement. #TWCNG2020 also noted the necessity of protecting the mental health of Nigerians and dedicated a session to substance abuse and mental health. When it began at the Adeyemi Bero Auditorium, Alausa, hundreds of young adults gathered to learn how to network with key employers and experts across all fields of work who are ready to mentor participants.  ‘A degree is no longer sufficient’ Acting Commissioner of the Lagos State Ministry of Wealth Creation and Employment Mrs. Solape Hammond, who was represented by the Director of Employment, Mrs. Iyabo Seriki-Bello urged the youth to find creative ways of being relevant at the workplace. She noted that a degree is no longer sufficient to make one indispensable at work, hence “the reason for the theme”. Mrs. Hammond lamented that though unemployment is high; there are always attractive job vacancies for suitably qualified people. She identified outdated school curricula, which lacked entrepreneurship skills content to prepare graduates for self-employment and Nigerian economy’s inability to absorb large number of graduates as obstacles to youth employment.  She added that preparing young people for the present and future work challenges called for a review of the current model of education, career planning and job search. Hammond said: “Considering the dynamism in the global labour market, workers need not wait till the shift arises before learning and teaching the new rules of success; this requires the workforce to be proactive and strategic in thinking.”  ‘Critical thinking, reasoning, creative skills essential’ She also identified critical thinking; reasoning and creative skills; passion for achievement and success; value; skill; emotional intelligence; decision making; problem solving and resourcefulness; team work skill; managing expectation; time management; expertise and curiosity as skills vital to young people’s relevance on the job and readiness for future work. “Above all, preparing young people for future work must give recognition to the wave of technological breakthroughs. We cannot fight innovation or disruption, what we can do is to change with time to be relevant. “Every field in life is open to revolutionary transformational development. Robotics and Artificial Intelligence are eating jobs at an alarming rate. It is frightening when you think about what machines can take away from us; however, they have the potential to make our lives better. “Pattern recognition software, for instance, would be much more skillful in diagnosing some diseases than human doctors, integrating renewable energy will also help farming in a more environmentally-friendly way,” she said. She noted that to be superior in any field, there was need for mastering of the right skills, “because you don’t want machine to retire you earlier than planned”.  Governor Sanwo-Olu’s priorities Mrs. Hammond added that the goal of equipping Lagosians, most importantly the youth in the state for the new, global, digital economy as well as the skill of the future, is at the peak of the agenda of the Sanwo-Olu administration. She urged the youth to improve on their virtual collaboration skills. “Spending every day in an office is no longer a necessity. Ability to use tools and resources to communicate with team members from different locations is now important than ever. Many multi-national companies such as Apple, Amazon, Dell and IBM are embracing remote workers and virtual collaborations. “Digital and media literacy will be paramount; ability to make connections and engage audience across vast different networks and interpreting social data. “Boost inmate creative intelligence skills, ability to create cannot be toppled by machine. Artificial Intelligence will develop creative ideas but human will still be in charge of most creative industries. Focus on learning how to do tasks that still needs humans.”  Youths must  find balance between education and skill Olaitan shared similar views. She observed that ideas, knowledge and innovation were constantly evolving and youths needed to learn new mindsets and skills that would enable them think globally, even while acting locally. One way they could do this, she noted, is to create a balance between education and emerging changes in work to meet future contingencies. Olaitan said: “In our society, it is generally conceived that after education and training, the next step is work. This work is complex and dynamic in nature. Everyday university graduates employed are posed with new challenges (either simple or complex). These challenges, most times, are beyond the graduate’s experience and strength leading to the problem of lay off or resignation.” She lamented that many graduates found it difficult to adapt to work conditions because of an unusual exposure to a different environment, task and idea. “This phenomenon is entirely different from the initial training given in educational institutions as most Nigerian schools do not introduce students to workplace problems and other practical issues in workplace, thereby posing a threat towards settling into organisation at the end of study.”  Internship  opportunity Key highlights of the workshop included employability/life skills; internship and work experience; education – preparing our children for work; vocational training; substance abuse and mental health issues; networking with employers and business owners, mentoring by industry experts. There was also a break-out session on surviving emerging technologies and engaging the Diaspora to tackle unemployment. At the end of the programme, selected participants were placed on a five-month paid internship with organisations. Olaitan explained the reason for this. She said: “This will afford them the chance of gaining both work experience  and on-the-job skills aimed at leading to permanent employment or starting a new business. “The job training cum educational event, which is at the instance of the Lagos State Ministry of Wealth Creation and Employment, will also facilitate meeting and relationship between employers and unemployed youths in Lagos State.”