Last week, we discussed the emerging trends of pestilence. Human beings are not strangers to endemic and pandemic diseases. Indeed medical and educational history and scriptural books are littered with ravaging diseases that have killed millions. The origins of these pestilences are frequently human-animal interactions. Examples: the bubonic plague – or “Black Death” – killed as many as one-third of Europe’s people in three long years (1347–1350 with an estimated 30 million Europeans killed. The disease of bubonic plague is caused by a bacteria carried by fleas (which travel on rats). There are also the Egyptian plagues: water turning to blood, frogs, lice, flies, livestock pestilence, boils, hail, locusts, darkness and the killing of firstborn children. Again, majority of these plagues were due to human-animal interactions – frogs, lice, flies, locusts. Until the vaccination was found, smallpox (a virus) ravaged humankind all over the world. In modern times, Ebola, Lassa fever, and other new viruses such as Coronavirus family have become as devastating a pestilence as the ancient diseases. Today, we will discuss a present and evident danger in the name of Lassa fever. Lassa fever: Lassa fever is an acute febrile illness, with bleeding and death in severe cases. It’s caused by Lassa fever virus. The disease took its name from Lassa town in Nigeria. In medical terms, Lassa fever virus is a member of Arenaviridae and is a RNA virus, enveloped with fat coating. You should not bother yourself about this medical details but I have written it here for completion. For historical reflection, in 1969, the first victim was an American nurse, a missionary in Lassa town in North-eastern Nigeria. Outbreaks in Nigeria (1970), Liberia (1972) and Sierra Leone (1972-1973). Ever since the 70s, there have been sporadic outbreaks of Lassa fever in different parts of Nigeria and West Africa. Indeed, since the last 5 years, there have been widespread outbreaks and endemicity. The first case of the current outbreak was reported from Bauchi in November, 2015. Following this are cases reported by Kano State, and subsequently to eight other states: Nassarawa, Niger, Taraba, Rivers, Edo, Plateau, Gombe, Oyo, and Lagos. Lassa fever causes estimated 300,000-500,000 cases per year 5000 deaths per year in Africa. It respects no age or gender.  Unlike the Ebola, which is a cousin to Lassa, approximately 15-20 per cent of patients hospitalised for Lassa fever die from the illness. However, only 1 per cent of all Lassa virus infections result in death. The death rates for women in the third trimester of pregnancy are particularly high. Risks: Individuals at greatest risk of Lassa virus infection are those who live in or visit endemic regions, including Sierra Leone, Liberia, Guinea, and Nigeria and have exposure to the multi-mammate rat. Risk of exposure may also exist in other West African countries where Mastomys rodents exist. Spread: The reservoir, or host, of Lassa virus is a rodent known as the “multimammate rat” (Mastomys natalensis). Once infected, this rodent is able to excrete virus in urine for an extended time period, maybe for the rest of its life. Mastomys rodents breed frequently, produce large numbers of offspring, and are numerous in the savannas and forests of west, central, and east Africa. In addition, Mastomys readily colonise human homes and areas where food is stored. All of these factors contribute to the relatively efficient spread of Lassa virus from infected rodents to humans. Person-to-person transmission may occur after exposure to virus in the blood, tissue, secretions, or excretions of a Lassa virus-infected individual. Casual contact (including skin-to-skin contact without exchange of body fluids) does not spread Lassa virus. Symptoms: Fever, headache, muscle, nausea and vomiting and join pain are common in mild cases. You will notice that these symptoms are similar to malaria and typhoid.  In severe cases, deafness, tremor, bleeding from body outlets such as nose, mouth, eyes, and ears may occur. Treatment: If caught early, especially within first 6 days, drug treatment is available for Lassa fever. Travel advice and more information are available in the World Health Organisation offices or their websites and respective state and federal ministries of health. Dr Joel Akande, Infertility Specialist and Consultant 08188343865 Email: managementlease@yahoo.com