By Gbenga Omokhunu, Abuja Churches, on Sunday, protested on major streets against the unending killings across the nation, especially in the northern parts. Although the Federal Government has condemned the beheading of Michika Local Government CAN Chairman, Rev Andimi, Christian Association of Nigeria(CAN) said the government has not done enough to protect Christians. CAN President, Samson Ayokunle, while briefing newsmen in Abuja last week said the prayer walk was aimed at using prayers to curb the activities of terrorists and criminals who have been orchestrating killings across the country. He also said the actions by the federal government had given such criminals the latitude to perpetrate crimes unchallenged. He called on President Muhammadu Buhari to overhaul the security apparatus to curb the killings. Apart from the RCCG, First Baptist Church members also came out to protest against the killings. Chairman, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), North Central, Rev. Israel Akanji, who spoke with newsmen in Abuja on the issue said President Muhammadu Buhari should change his approach to security. Akanji said sacking the Service Chiefs was not the solution to the insecurity in the country, adding that he has confidence in the nation’s security operatives. His words: “I believe that if the tone of the command changes, I tell you the truth we will have victory. I am one person that has confidence in the Nigerian security system. These are people that are heroes, they have gone to other parts of the world to solve problems. They have fought in many countries. “But for them to now be incapacitated in their own country then there must be that they are not hearing the same kind of command. My own feeling is that the command should change. I have believe in President Muhammadu Buhari that no country in Africa can defeat Nigeria. To me if Buhari says these killings should stop it will stop. I feel that he has to change his approach. “Even before the protest march came we have had a declaration of a month of waiting and prayer for the nation and looking up to God for the nation. We believe that the protest march is the outward part of the thing we are doing also internally by praying for the nation. “We are protesting to God and letting God know that the situation is becoming most unbearable that people will be killed, lives will be taken and nothing is done in a nation like this and we are thinking that there is so much focus on Christians because if you go and kill a CAN chairman in a local government what you are doing is that you are confronting all the Christians. No life should be taken in the way that lives are been taken. But when you now target a leader of the church then it is sad. “It is becoming very embarrassing and shameful that in a country where we has lived together and all of a sudden now we are turning against each other and in this form and it has been persistent and we feel that there are supposed to be more intervention from the leaders of this country particularly when that man had time to cry for help and call on people and at the end of the day he was killed. “We are all out for the same purpose using different approaches. Sincerely speaking, my own feeling is that even if you change the Service Chiefs ten times and bring different other tribes we may not have any progress in the sense that the security chiefs are working under command and if the tone of that command does not change, who ever comes there cannot do anything”. The RCCG and First Baptist Church members also protested Kuje, Gwagwalada and Wuse where the walk lasted for ten minutes. Special Assistant Media and Communications, to the CAN President, Pastor Adebayo Oladeji, who is also a Pastor of First Baptist Church, Gwagwalada told The Nation that government should not rest on its oars on security. His words: “We say no to the killings going on in the country. We say no to terror attacks, bandit killings, herdsmen killings, kidnappings, genocide and every form of persecutions in the country. Our security agencies should wake up from their slumber. “The Federal government should stop recycling the terrorists through the unjust releasing of the capture terrorists. The primary duty of any government anywhere in the world is the protection of lives and property. No more excuses. “All the masterminds of the bloodshed in the country must be arrested and prosecuted. We know that our three days of waiting shall not be in vain. We have asked God to intervene. He did it in Egypt and Samaria, He will deliver Nigeria”. The protests, in Abuja which was held under the watchful eyes of security personnel, was peaceful as the congregation carried placards decrying the worsening insecurity in the country. They also sang worship songs and prayed as they marched round the streets.