Excitements as the people especially the residents of Alimosho in Lagos State witnessed the inauguration of newly installed medical equipment at the Alimosho General Hospital under Coca-Cola’s Safe Birth Initiative recently. The hospital was overflowing with a number of guests who had journeyed to celebrate this historic event with the hospital. In attendance were key Federal and State dignitaries such as, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on SDGs, Princess Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire, The Governor of Lagos State, represented by the Secretary to the Lagos State Government, Folashade Jaji, the Minister of Health represented by Dr. Olugbenga Owoeye, and the Honorable Commissioner of Health, Lagos State, Prof. Akinola Abayomi. Also in attendance, was the Chief Medical Director, Alimosho General Hospital, Dr Adebajo Madewa and the Director of Biomedical Training and Technical Services,  Medshare International USA, Eben Amstrong. The royalties also joined in the inauguration ceremony as The Traditional Ruler of Shasha Kingdom, Alimosho, Oba Babatunde Akanbi Ogunrobi, The Onimeran of Meran, Oba Dr. Samuel Adisa and The Onigando of Igando Land, Oba Gbadamosi Lasisi, were all present at the event The dignitaries present all expressed their gratitude to Coca-Cola for championing an initiative like this and also encouraged more companies to follow suit. One of the beneficiaries of the newly installed medical equipment, Olayinka Shokunbi also shared a heartwarming story about why the Safe Birth Initiative is very dear to her heart. She said, “I would like to appreciate the bodies behind this initiative. 37 years ago, my mother died at childbirth because of the unavailability of necessary equipment required to keep her alive after complications during childbirth, so this initiative is very important to me. The Coca-Cola Safe Birth Initiative is a social investment from Coca-Cola Nigeria in partnership with Medshare International and the Federal Government through the Office of the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Sustainable Development Goals (OSSAP-SDGs) and the Federal Ministry of Health geared at proffering sustainable solutions to the most pressing challenge of bringing mums and babies home alive. 