 As the Independent National  Electoral Commission (INEC) prepares for the by-election in Imo North District, political heavyweights from the area are now in a battle of wits to get the ticket. The seat became vacant, following the death of Senator Benjamin Uwajumogu last December. Uwajumogu, who was buried last Friday in his home town, Umuihi, Ihitte Uboma Local Government Area, was first elected into the Red Chambers in 2015 and he was re-elected last year on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). While Senator Ifeanyi Araraume, a two time senator for the zone(1999-2007), has begun mobilisation to re-launch himself into the upper legislative chambers, Chief Ikedi Ohakim, a former governor of the state, has not hidden his ambition to succeed the late Uwajumogu. Both Araraume and Ohakim are from Isiala Mbano Local Government Area.  A businessman and a former senator, Chief Athan Nneji Achonu, oiling his political machinery for his return to the senate. He spent  only one year in the Senate before the Appeal Court upturned his victory in favour of the late Uwajumogu. Achonu is from Ehime Mbano LGA. Araraume who contested the 2019 governorship election on the platform of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) is said to be on his way back to the APC from where he jumped the ship to the APGA at the twilight of the election. He is said to be enjoying the backing of Governor Hope Uzodinma, who he reportedly assisted to secure victory. Expectedly, the gladiators have not relented in extending their olive branch to major stakeholders within and outside the zone to secure their blessing, including traditional rulers and religious leaders. A business mogul, Chief Tony Chukwu, has since become a beautiful bride as his house has become a political pilgrimage for politicians, supporters and agents who troop there  daily to secure his blessings. It was gathered that a meeting held at his residence last weekend, ended in confusion as those in attendance failed to reach a compromise. A PDP chieftain, who pleaded anonymity, disclosed that Ohakim who failed to realise his second term ambition in 2011 is said to be enjoying the sympathy of the PDP and is doing all within his reach to garner the supports of some chieftains of the party. 