What could be the reason for the lethargy in appointing the full number of Justices of the Supreme Court of Nigeria, as enjoined by the 1999 constitution (as amended)? Presently, the number of Justices of the Supreme Court has dropped to 13, with the retirement of Justice Amiru Sanusi. Last year, Justice Walter Onnoghen left the apex court in controversial circumstances, while Justices Kumai Akaahs and Sidi Barge retired from the apex court. To compound the woes, the Supreme Court website has been out of use since a year ago. With the present number of 13 justices, the apex court cannot muster a full complement of two panels, which is made up of seven justices per panel. Perhaps, bearing the constitutional makeup of a full panel in mind, the 1999 constitution, as amended, provides in section 230(2)(b) thus: “The Supreme Court of Nigeria shall consist of – such number of Justices of the Supreme Court not exceeding twenty-one, as may be prescribed by an act of the National Assembly.” On the procedure for appointment of Justices of the Supreme Court, section 231(2) provides: “The appointment of a person to the office of a Justice of the Supreme Court shall be made by the President on the recommendation of the National Judicial Council subject to confirmation of such appointment by the senate.” Of note, in June 2019, President Muhammadu Buhari had requested the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Tanko Muhammadu, to “initiate in earnest the process of appointing additional five Justices of the Supreme Court of Nigeria to make the full complement of 21 Justices” , to which he hearkened. Consequent on that request, the NJC at its meeting of October 22 and 23, 2019, recommended Justices Adamu Jauro, Emmanuel Agim, C. Oseji, and Helen Ogunwumiju, to the president, for elevation to the apex court. With the recommendation duly made, the president on his part is enjoined by the constitution to approve same and forward their names to the senate for a confirmation hearing. With the further depletion of the Supreme Court, we urge the president to deal with the recommendation, without further delay. There is no doubt that the appointment of more Justices to the Supreme Court has become a matter of grave urgency. On the constitution of panels of the court, section 234 provides: “For the purpose of exercising any jurisdiction conferred on it by this constitution or any law, the Supreme Court shall be duly constituted if it consists of not less than five Justices of Supreme Court.” The proviso to section 234, further provides: “Provided that where the Supreme Court is sitting to consider an appeal brought under section 233(2)(b) and (c) of this constitution, or to exercise its original jurisdiction in accordance with section 232 of this constitution, the court shall be constituted by seven Justices.” Section 232 deals with the original exclusive jurisdiction of the Supreme Court with respect to “any dispute between the federation and a state or between states if and in so far as that dispute involves any question (whether of law or fact) on which the existence or extent of a legal right depends.” On its part, section 233(2)(b) deals with “decisions in any civil or criminal proceedings on questions as to the interpretation or application of this constitution,” while subsection (c) provides: “decisions in any civil or criminal proceedings on questions as to whether any of the provisions of chapter IV of this constitution has been, is being or is likely to be contravened in relation to any person.” As we saw recently, the hearing of election petitions became a huge burden on the Supreme Court justices. So, when Justice Muhammad and the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) complain that the Justices of the Supreme Court are overworked, and more justices should be appointed, they have a point. Again, when litigants lament that some matters in the Supreme Court stay as long as 10 years or more, before they can be heard, the reasons are obvious. Furthermore, when there is a general feeling of despondency about the judicial process, the reasons are not far-fetched. Of course there is no reason why the court’s website should not be working. A functional website will aid the job of the court as well as its various stakeholders. The court should therefore do all within its powers to ensure that the anomaly is rectified. The colossal impact of the loss of trust in the judicial system is better imagined. So, we urge the President to quickly deal with the recommendations sent to him. We hope the persons chosen are of impeccable character and have the diversity and integrity to infuse greater confidence of Nigerians and judicial stakeholders on the capacity of our courts to deliver on their constitutional mandate. There is no doubt that an efficient judiciary is a sine qua non to the entrenchment of democratic values. The Supreme Court is too precious to be toyed with.