 EMINENT Nigerians including vice president Yemi Osinbajo, who represented President Muhammadu Buhari, former presidents, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo and Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, on Saturday, graced the funeral service of the father of Akwa Ibom State governor, the late Elder Gabriel Emmanuel Nkanang. Other dignitaries at the event were the president of the Senate, Ahmed Lawan, immediate past Senate President, Olusola Saraki, and the chairman of the Governor’s Forum, Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, among others. Osinbajo commended Governor Udom Emmanuel for the legacy left by his late father, Elder Gabriel Nkanang. He said the deceased left behind the ‘blessings of a thousand generations’. He noted that the deceased served God during his lifetime and died as a Christian; he left behind an inheritance for his children. He stated that according to the Bible, the inheritance was not money, property or wealth but the blessings that would last for a thousand generations. The late Nkanang was 90 years old. “Papa was in his life time a legendary teacher and headmaster, who taught and mentored thousands of students, many of whom are here today to celebrate his life and time. But his greatest legacy will be the faithful and prolific spreading of the gospel of Jesus Christ through the Qua Iboe Church. Through the great work that he did, it was clear to all that not only was he a teacher and a mentor of men but also a leader and father to so many,” he said. Fayemi, who spoke on behalf of the state governors, said the gathering was a celebration of life. He stated that the gathering was not to mourn the deceased but to celebrate a father who reared great children, and spent his life well. He commended the children of the deceased for giving him a worthy departure, saying “we celebrate papa Gabriel Nkanang for a life well spent and also celebrate the children for ensuring that they give papa a worthy departure.” While speaking, Governor Udom Emmanuel said the ceremony was a bridge building one because of the calibre of people that came to the occasion. He said though his father was not a rich man, he was caring, and a man of character, adding that he was thankful to God that he has honoured his father. He stated that there are different kinds of fathers: spiritual, economic and political fathers, of which he has many. He noted that though all other fathers can be represented, it is only a biological father that cannot be represented. “I never knew I am this loved by Nigerians. I can only say to Nigerians, I am deeply indebted to you. I love you all. I appreciate your show of love. I say on behalf of my family that we are very grateful. This is one ceremony that will remain ever green in our hearts because it cuts across all. God bless you all. I am able to stand here today because of the kind of biological father that I had. My father worked to exemplify everything a father should be. He was not a rich man but he was such a caring father. My father ensured everything a good father could ensure and we are grateful, and we are thankful to him,” he stated. 