 THE prestigious 2020 GTBank Lagos International Polo Tournament ended on a flourishing note at the weekend, with Lagos-based teams sweeping all the stakes at the glamorous fiesta. The proud host that threw in more teams than other participating clubs dominated the two-week international event, with Lieghton Kings team harvesting four major prizes to confirm Lagos supremacy as Nigeria’s oldest polo club since 1904. Speaker of the House of Representatives Femi Gbajabiamila, Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, his Deputy, Obafemi Hamzat, Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State, MD/CEO GTBank,  Segun Agbaje led the roll call of dignitaries to the grand finale of the  tournament which attracted an unprecedented 39 teams. Leightons defeated Lintex/Agad 10-5 in the final game of the epoch Lagos polo festival decided in front of a surging crowd to win the event’s biggest prize, the Majkedunmi Cup to add Independence Cup for effect. The Kings, boasting of Bowale Jolaosho, Bello Buba, Raul Laplacette and Manuel Crespo, were truly at their best having won the Oba of Lagos Cup, Open Cup, and Italian Ambassador’s Cup. Their quest for a quartet almost ran into the rough as Lintex/Agad which paraded Sadiq Dantata, Bashir Dantata, Chris McKenzie and Thomas Lorente pushed them all the way in the first three chukkas of the epic final, but succumbed to the horse power of Lieghton, who rallied to an easy win. In the  Low Cup final, the bright stars, Timi Badiru, Tomi Ojora,Yasin Amusan and their British import, Dorian Bulteau provided the biggest upset of the tournament, surviving a late surge by more experience STL for a 9 ½ – 8  to triumph. The Governor’s Cup final that galloped off on the final day of 2020 Lagos tourney on a blistering note, saw  the resurgence Lagos RCF A+ coming from 1-4 down in the last chukka to win 5-4 against visiting Nasariya Furnitures team from Kano. “The Majek final was a nerve wrecking final, from start to finish, our Lintex/ Agad opponents pushed us all the way, but we wanted the cup most and our determination paid off with a deserving victory,” Jolaosho declared after receiving the Majekodunmi Cup from the Lagos State Governor. Lagos Polo Club President, Ayo Olashoju who described the tournament as one of the most successful in years pointed out that the campaign for Majekodunmi Cup, Open Cup, Low Cup and Silver Cup  prizes, were most competitive and the most exciting in years. He lauded all the corporate sponsors for promoting polo in Lagos, noting that the relationship between Lagos polo and sponsors over the years has had a positive impact in the development of the game of kings. Tournament Manager, Seyi Oyinlola promised that next year would get better as it has always been over the years.