  The House of Representatives on Thursday accused the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) of “gross misconduct of the highest order” for its failure to submit its audited account to the office of the Auditor General of the  federation as required by law. Chairman of the House Committee on Public Accounts, Rep. Oluwole Oke who spoke when the Executive Chairman of Service Mohammed Nami appeared before the committee said the failure of the FIRS was shocking considering the fact that agency run after agencies who fail to make remittances on time. The excuse by the FIRS boss who appeared before the resumed Public hearing on refusal of Non-Treasury Funded and Partially Funded Agencies to render their Audited Accounts covering the period 2014 till date to the Auditor-General of the Federation that he assumed office in December and  pleaded for time to get the outstanding ones ready for rendition did not go down well with the committee. The Committee frowned at the submission of the FIRS boss being the Nation’s official revenue collector wondering why such an all-important Revenue Agency would not have an up to date audited accounts. Rep Oke said “it is very strange. If the FIRS cannot produce an up to date audited accounts of its operations, how does it wants the Executive arm of the government to prepare  the Medium Time Expenditure Frame Work, to the legislature to determine the annual financial budget? “Funny enough, the officials of the same Agency will be seen moving around to seal off premises of business outfits over nonpayment of their taxes “We are aware that the Executive Chairman of the Agency assumed office in December last year but that should not an excuse for the Agency to have an up to date audited accounts for accountability. The Committee however resolved to place the Agency on a full scale status enquiry to probe into its operations to be able make amendments where necessary for greater efficiency. Rep. Oke said that the exercise was not meant to witch hunt anybody adding that this became necessary to unravel what had happened and correct those  identified lapses for the nation to forge ahead He stated that the Agency was also being placed on status enquiry because of the attitudes of some of the Ministries, Departments and Agencies, MDAs, being investigated which had been giving all sort of excuses for not having up to date audited accounts as required by law of the land. The FIRS boss with the Committee to overlook  the mistakes promised that the Agency under his watch would make necessarily correction and do the needful instantly. Meanwhile the Managing Director of the Ogun- Osun River Basin Development Authority, ORBDA, Olufemi Odumosu whose arrest was ordered by the Committee on Wednesday over his previous absence before the Parliament suddenly made an appearance on Thursday, apologizing profusely for his action. Odumosu said he actually prepared to appear before the Committee on Wednesday but was held up on his way to Lagos to catch his flight to Abuja due to bad bad road  but which he eventually missed. The Committee however placed the Agency on  full Status enquiry following infractions discovered in the presentation of the MD and his inability to provide any proof of rendition of the accounts of the Agency to the Auditor General of the Federation as claimed Also, the Committee gave the Management of the Standard Organization of Nigeria, SON, a last chance to appear before it or be arrested to face criminal charges. The Representatives of the Auditor General of the Federation said that the MDAs attitudes towards rendition of audited accounts were gross misconduct and total breach of the law of the land which attracted severe sanctions including jail terms.  