Cross River State Governor Ben Ayade has opened a Primary Health Centre in Uchu-Yache, Yala Local Government. He also kicked off the 2020 National Immunisation Plus Days. Ayade, who was represented by his deputy, Prof Ivara Esu, urged the people to maximise the facility for their health needs. The governor reaffirmed the government’s desire to actualise a 100 per cent scorecard in immunisation, and the implementation of national health policies for the people’s benefit. He said: “Congratulations Yache people; we assure you there will be more development here. You have raised noble men who have contributed to the development of our state, and it is on this note that Governor Ayade has chosen this community to establishment Cross River’s most sophisticated and comprehensive health care facility.” Director-General of the Primary Health care Development agency Dr Janet Ekpenyong thanked Ayade for his passion and selfless intervention, especially in hard-to-reach-areas. She admonished the people to maximise the facility for their health needs. “…I plead with our mothers and care givers to ensure our children benefit from the ongoing immunisation to kick polio out of our state. I also urge you to make this facility your first point of call so we can reduce mother and child mortality.” Ayade has described the 2019 Governor of the Year award given him by the Independent as a spur to do more for his people. He spoke in Calabar when the letter of notification for the award was presented to him. The letter was presented by Managing Director/Editor-in-Chief of Independent Steve Omanufeme and Chairman of the 2019 Award Committee Babs Alasa. Ayade, who lauded the selection process, said the award had proven its integrity over the years. He insisted that ‘if the award was for the highest bidder, neither I nor Cross River would have been able to afford it, but the newspaper chose credibility and performance above other considerations’. The governor, who dedicated the award to the people of Cross River, promised continuity in his performance. He vowed that despite lean resources, payment of salaries, pensions and gratuity would be his priority. “I have to specially thank you for finding my work worthy of this award; this shows you have been noticing my work, and I believe the analysis you made with reference to our agro-industrialisation was very apt. “Cross River State is No. 35 of 36 states in terms of federal allocation. The state has a huge debt burden, and it is No. 4 in terms of cumulative indebtedness. “I came into office with so much pressure on my shoulders, but I focused on the people and I prioritised government as that of the people, for their welfare and security, as contained in Section 14 (12) of the 1999 Constitution as amended.” The governor reiterated that whether the state had money or not, with his combined efficiency of intellectual money, Cross River State would sustain salary payment on or before 25 of every month. Alasa and Omanufeme praised Ayade for his development initiatives. They noted that the industrialisation projects were making the state a centre of attraction for foreign and local investors.