The launch of the Western Nigeria Security Network, codenamed Operation Amotekun by the governors of the Southwest region has brought to the fore the absurdity of Nigeria’s brand of federalism. After an initial disagreement and the call for the reversal of the initiative, the Federal Government has asked the six governors to secure a legal backing for it from their legislative arms of government. The development, KUNLE AJAYI reports, is likely to pave the way for the establishment of various regional security frameworks across the country.  THE debate generated by the launch of the Western Nigeria Security Network, code-named Operation Amotekun, has brought to fore the absurdities associated with Nigeria’s federalism. Operation Amotekun was launched on January 9, this year, by governors in the Southwest region, in response to the increasing need to protect their states from destruction of farmlands and frequent clashes between herders and farmers, which have led to loss of lives and prosperities and serial killings, kidnappings, armed robbery etc. But, the development did not go down well with the Federal Government. Everything was going well until the Attorney-General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami faulted the establishment of Amotekun, describing the initiative as ‘illegal’. He said the country’s legal framework does not support the establishment of such a security outfit. Malami’s response generated uproar not only within the Southwest but across the country. The debate was, however, put to rest after a meeting of the concerned  governors, the APC National Leader Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and other stakeholders at the Aso Rock Villa, the federal seat of power. At the meeting, the issue was resolved and it was agreed that the initiative should operate within the confines of the country’s security laws. What is actually wrong with Operation Amotekun as it was conceived? Some of the arguments revolving around the initiative centres on its recruitment and modus operandi, particularly whether its operatives will bear arms and their relationship with the Nigeria Police Force. Stakeholders from the region, including traditional rulers, university dons, opinion leaders and civil society groups, have all thrown their weight behind the initiative, saying it is the sensible thing to do in the face of increasing crime and criminality within the region with accusing fingers pointed at nomadic  cattle herders. Observers say every nation has their own peculiar security challenges and that as long as humans live together crime and security issues would always be a challenge. Hence, the idea of a local or a regional policing outfit to compliment the efforts of the central security agencies is not a bad one. They argue that Operation Amotekun is a reaction to the inadequacies of the centralised security system operational in the country. Indeed, Nigeria is the only federation in the world that operates a centralised security system. This raises questions about the type federalism operational in the country. Dr. Azeez Olaniyan, a lecturer in the Department of Political Science, Ekiti State University, said Nigeria operates a federal system, but with some peculiarities.  He said: “The debate over the type of federalism operational in Nigeria could be as a result of long military rule. In the First Republic, for instance, Nigeria had a vibrant regional governments with evident development that generated applauds from all. It was more of a confederation than a federal system, as there were more powers in the regions than the centre. But, the military coups of 1966 dragged Nigeria back to a unitary system where all powers returned to central government. Governments after the military era have laid claims to federalism, but it has been more of a centralised system where the bulk of the powers were concentrated at the centre. ”The centralised federalism distinctly operational in Nigeria culminated into all important sectors and agencies, including security being controlled centrally. It remains to be seen what becomes of Operation Amotekun, given the allegation and the fear by the North that it is a ploy by the Yoruba nation to secede from Nigeria. Nigerians often talk of “true federalism” when complaining about the brand of federalism being practiced in the country. In other federations, such as that of the United States, Canada, and India, there is a clear-cut sharing of powers between the centre and the federating units in a manner to give autonomy to the latter. The system Nigeria is practicing is more like the unitary system, where so much power is concentrated at the centre. Nigerians often bemoan the fact that they were brought together by the British colonial masters in 1914 without sitting down to discuss the terms of such cohabitation. The merger by the colonial masters which sought to unite the Northern and the Southern Protectorates rather than the people was solely for the smooth running of the colonial businesses, starting from moving of raw materials from the North and to the seaports in the South, and for onward transportation to Europe and America. It is sufficient to say that major features of a nation are one language, one ethnic group, race, and homogeneous culture. The pathetic story of Nigeria is that of nations fused together against their will and, consequently, there are more dissimilarities than similarities among the existing 250 ethnic groups. Subsequently, as the country progressed, all practices both political and economic depict more of ethnic chauvinism beyond that of nationalism. The Head of the Department of Mass Communications, Ekiti State University, Prof. Dele Adetoye, believes each federation has the right to come up with a different formula of sharing power between the centre and the federating units, based on its peculiar circumstances. He also believes that the essential feature, which distinguishes it from the unitary system, is to grant autonomy to the units to do things according to their own peculiar circumstances. His words: “There’s no hard and fast rule about federalism because it has its own variance. Federalism is elastic but there are obvious features that involve different levels of governments with certain levels of autonomy. Federalism is majorly for and used in multi-ethnic or plural society, so that elements that make up the society can have limited autonomy.” Dr. Olaniyan said Operation Amotekun is a laudable idea, but was deployed with a wrong strategy. He said: “The AGF is the chief law enforcer and the custodian of the constitution, and therefore is duty bound to ensure that every citizen and institution act within the confines of the law. If the Southwest governors had gone through their various states’ House of Assembly, perhaps the AGF would not have negated the laudable idea aimed at stabilising the region, security wise.” Some observers, particularly from the northern part of the country have insisted that Amotekun is a ploy for the Yoruba nation to eventually secede from the Nigerian union. Others claim that the Federal Government is afraid of having vibrant geopolitical regions.  Opinions are divided as to the necessity and the implication of a regional security outfit at this point in time. But, Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, one of the six governors behind the Operation Amotekun initiative, has assured those who habour such fears that the Southwest has no plans to secede from Nigeria. He said the region remains a part of Nigeria, and would continue to be a part of Nigeria and that it is committed to the nation’s indivisibility and unity. Governor Fayemi gave the assurance when he hosted a pan-Yoruba development interest group, the Oodua Progressive Union (OPU) Worldwide, who were led to his office by the Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland, Gani Adams. Fayemi, represented by his Deputy, Bisi Egbeyemi said: “Nobody should entertain any fear of secession by the Southwest over the launch of Amotekun,” which he said was meant to protect all Nigerians resident in the region. He said governors in the Southwest decided to establish Amotekun to tackle criminal activities like armed robbery, kidnapping, destruction of lives and property and give assurance of safety to residents. His words: “Amotekun is not political; it was established for the protection of our people, to stem the tide of armed robbery, kidnapping, illegal destruction of lives and property. This is the first time that the region is united on the need to raise a security platform to complement the existing security agencies to protect the lives and property of our people which is our constitutional duty.” However, Adetoye has warned that “Amotekun is a double edge sword that can be used to curb criminality and also be deployed if not properly managed for political gains of its handlers”. He added: “The architect of the idea must ensure it doesn’t balloon off their hands.”Nevertheless, Adetoye who is an expert on political economy believes Operation Amotekun is an idea whose time has come. He enjoined the authorities concerned to leave politics aside and tackle the growing insecurity across the nation. Adetoye who heads the department also lauded the efforts of the Federal Government in curbing the menace of Boko Haram and other forms of insurgencies across the federation. He said “the security of lives and properties of Nigerians should not be politicised”. 