 WHY did you choose to be a director? Firstly, growing up creativity has been a part of me, I grew up to write comics and interesting stories. People use to love it then , even as a primary school pupil,people wondered how I got the stories. After my university education, I got into filmmaking and wrote a couple of novels and  also acted too. One thing pained me, when you write a good story and the director does not get the picture you are trying to portray, it becomes annoying. So I started paying attention to directing. I write my scripts and direct myself to bring out the picture I am talking about. Because it is really painful for you visualize something through your script and the director is not able to realise it,thus I chose full time directing. One other painful thing I saw that made me go into directing is, a lot of our films are loaded with what we call “deus ex machina”. You create conflict with a good story and then you end it in a church, mosque or babalawo’s house. There are pragmatic ways of solving conflicts rather than all that. In Nigeria aside the religious bodies, people tend to learn a lot and believe in filmmakers. The filmspace shapes the society. Directors, the script writers and filmmakers have their own part to do, because you are educating people and they should be educated too. The films belong to the director, it is the director’s interpretation that gives overall meaning, so that gives the power to tell the story the way it should be. And personally, I want to tell pragmatic stories, not ones overbeaten with “deus ex machina”. In essence you are saying as a director you have set out to change the status quo? Exactly, to change the narrative of what has been in existence. What is challenging about directing? Directing is challenging from the environmental influences, artistic challenges or from the societal challenge. As a passionate director you need a script and you look for the kind of actors to play the role. But because of the system they bring to you some kind of actors that are not the perfect cast. They tell you because of certain things that actor must take that role, and one of the problems we have in the society. We want people to buy the idea of  a good story. A good content that people can relate to. For instance, In Nigeria we have over 100 good male and female actors and the concentration is only on four or five. It affects creativity in the sense that, I want to tell a story and I need this actor for like 4 to 5 days and he is in a hurry. He has just two days with you because he is busy. He is not relaxed, some even tell you that they have not read the script. So there is no internalizing the character. It not their fault, but they don’t have the time. I have realised that a lot of people when they write scripts, their story lacks depth, so they want to drive it in with a star. As a passionate director these are  challenges, but we can’t disconnect ourselves from the system. There are times we need to bend. It a gradual process because if you get too rigid they will start calling you names. What’s your view on the current state of Nollywood generally in terms of performance and appeal worldwide? I think we are beginning to get global attention . When I say ‘we’, I mean the system and the government. As Nollywood  practitioners, we are doing a lot of things individually. We can’t do anything without the government. Nigerians are everywhere, we are on Netflix. It shows that they are beginning to recognize with us. The government is not maximizing the potential of the filmmaking industry. It should  maximize the potential of our African content to bring international appeal. If we are watching Zee World here in Nigeria then they should be watching Nolly World in America. Do you know the number of  Nigerians in the UK? If the Nigerian government takes it seriously they will find a way to go about it and it will happen. Apart from government, entertainment is the highest employer of labour in Nigeria and the government is not taking that seriously. We need to see what Indians and  Mexicans are doing. The Oscars we are talking about, Egypt has been there several times, also South Africa and Sudan, so we are not there yet. Apart from directing what else do you do? I write like there is no tomorrow. Before coming into the industry, I was a French teacher. I studied French Language from the University of Ibadan. I was a fitness instructor. So I bring all these things into directing. As a director it is good for you to be a connoisseur, somebody who has knowledge about different things and someone who researches. A lot of our directors, writers or filmmakers don’t research. I write and I teach. Sexual harassment in the industry and sex for roles is age long, how do you react to it? If any actor or actress tells you that they left the industry because of sexual harassment, then they are not talented or they are not serious. More often these actresses are the ones harassing through their dressing and the messages they send to them. Also the way and manner they talk to the directors, how you carry yourself matters. I am not saying there are no directors doing such, but the truth is if you go to other industries, these things happen there also. One fact about this industry is that, If you are talented they will look for you. If you are not talented there are lots of departments in filmmaking than acting, because everyone cannot act. As a director who are your role models or those you aspire to be like? Tunde Kelani inspired me a lot. He tells Pan African stories and he does standard films that you can see anywhere in the world. Ousmane Sembene ,a writer, filmmaker and director from Senegal is also a great inspiration to me as well as Femi Odugbemi. How do you aim to take directing to the next level? I hope to take directing to the next level through the use of CGI (computer generated image). We have started already by telling pragmatic stories. If you look at the narrative of what people see in Africa magic, you will see that, gradually we are deploying that pragmatic approach. For three consecutive times, we have been at the AMVCA and we won twice. And that is one of the most credible awards in Nigeria. Also apart from the movie itself, the making of the movie should be released. Because it is a sort of tutorial to up and coming artists. Gradually we will get to that level, because that is what I want to see.