 The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has boasted that nothing would stop its members from attending the burial ceremony of their leader’s (Nnamdi Kanu) parents; His Royal Highness Eze Israel Okwu Kanu and Wife, Ugoeze Sally Meme Okwu Kanu, slated for February 14 at Isiama Afaraukwu in Umuahia North Local Government Area of Abia State. The Nation reports that IPOB and security agencies have been engaged in war of words in the past week as IPOB have on several occasions accused the police and other security agencies in the state of planning to launch massive hunt on its members and anyone suspected to be supporting the activities of the group. Kanu had in a tweet on his official twitter handle @MaziNnamdiKanu at the weekend accused the police and other security agencies of planning to raid hotels in Umuahia in attempt to arrest members of the group who would be in the state to pay their last respect to his parents. But police and other security outfits in the state have all denied all the allegations leveled against them by the IPOB. But the Publicity Secretary of the pro-Biafra group, Comrade Emma Powerful on Monday while reacting to a recent statement attributed to the Abia State Commissioner of Police, CP Okon who warned IPOB members not to attend the burial of Kanu’s parents in their own interest, berated the Abia Police Commissioner for threatening to arrest its members should they attend the burial. According to Powerful, the military and police should be ashamed of themselves for threatening to arrest IPOB members who planned to attend the funeral service. “Despicable and downright condemnable utterance can only obtain in Biafraland where socio-cultural and political leadership are in the hands of unrepentant traitors,” said Powerful He queried: “Will a commissioner of police make such a ridiculous statement in the Sharia North. Not even during the burial ceremony of countless murderous Fulani terrorists in the north did any police commissioner find it worthy to warn mourners not to attend a funeral service. In the sad history of Nigeria, never has there been an edict or warning issued against those mourning the passing of loved ones only now in Abia State. He reiterated what IPOB leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu said on Saturday, February 8, that should any shot be fired in and around Isiama Afaraukwu on Friday at the burial of Kanu’s parents, “the family and children of CP Okon will be hunted down and killed.” He added:  “If Buratai is involved through his cowardly army that ran away from Boko Haram in the north with their tails between their legs, is found culpable his children will also pay the price anywhere they are in the world. We say enough is enough!” According to him, “Before this Okon came, there were other loud mouthed southern police commissioners in Abia that sought to impress their Alimajiri masters by making unedifying and unguarded utterances against our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu and the indomitable IPOB family. The same way they sunk into oblivion is exactly the same way this talkative impostor will be quickly consigned to the scrapheap of used and discarded unthinking caliphate servants from the south.” He said that IPOB was not in the business of responding to “incompetent lowly ranked officers of a failed, shameless, uncivilised and discredited colonial disgrace like Nigeria. IPOB is an international movement currently engaged in international diplomacy to drive home the need to put the long suffering ethnic nationalities the British herded together into their failed experiment in Nigeria out of the primitive stranglehold of the eternally backward Arewa core north. “These inconsequential and roundly incompetent local police and military operatives blabbing away from a poorly maintained office in a dilapidated building in Umuahia and Ohafia  are not worthy of an intelligent response from the great IPOB.” He maintained:  “We shall as always peacefully attend the burial of His Royal Majesty and his wife and should Nigerian army and police attempt to breach the peace; the world will bear us witness.” However, he warned the police and those parading themselves as military officers in Afaraukwu to beware because they cannot stop IPOB from coming to the burial of our leader’s parents on 14th of February, next week Friday. “All the years of threats and brutal crackdowns on IPOB have all resulted in making IPOB more defiant, determined and ruthless in our pursuit of the noble goal of Biafra liberation. “If the military might of the Alimajiri Nigerian north, grand conspiracy of the judiciary and mind-numbing treachery of Igbo governors and Ohaneze Ndigbo could not stop IPOB, how much less an unknown Fulani boy-boy and servant in police uniform in Umuahia, ” he stated. In a chat with the Abia State Commissioner of Police, the commissioner dismissed the threat by Kanu and members of his group on his family members. The State Police Chief who described Kanu’s threat as the ranting of a local coward said “The only reaction I have is that, it is the ranting of a local coward. Let him come and participate in his parents’ burial before he can have the mouth to talk to me. If he cannot do that, he should keep mute permanently.” Okon who maintained that Police in the state would provide security for people who are going to be in attendance to pay their last respect to the Isiama Afaraukwu monarch and wife, however, vowed to deal decisively with any IPOB member(s) seen around the village or the compound of the traditional ruler.