 All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain Michael Akinleye has sued the party on the vacant National Deputy Chairman for South. His action followed the alleged nomination of former Oyo State Governor Abiola Ajimobi for the position. The seat became vacant, following the appointment of its former occupant, Otunba Niyi Adebayo, as Minister of Trade and Investment. Senator Ajimobi, Senator Gbenga Aluko and Akinleye are eyeing the position. Akinleye has instituted two cases at the Federal High Court Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State, praying it to restrain the party from naming Ajimobi as new deputy chairman. Defendants in the suits APC National Chairman, the National Working Committee (NWC), National Vice Chairman (Southwest), APC South West Zonal Caucus, Ekiti State Chairman of APC, Ekiti State Caucus of APC and Ajimobi. Concerned party chieftains said the suits may be a setback to the reconciliation in the Southwest. They called for dialogue, saying litigation may deepen the crisis in the zone. The case came up for hearing on February 14.  The presiding judge had adjourned the matter till February 20 to enable the court put the respondents on notice and for the respondents to show cause why the ex parte application should not be granted. The case came up again on the adjourned date of February 20. The court was notified that the respondents have not been served. The judge order expeditious service on respondents and adjourned the case to March 12. In the first suit, Akinleye is praying for: “An order restraining the APC SW National Vice Chairman, APC SW Caucus, the Ekiti state chairman of APC and the Ekiti state Caucus from forwarding the name of Sen. Abiola Ajimobi or any other name to the National Chairman, National Working Committee and All Progressives Congress, APC, to fill the vacant office of the Deputy National Chairman of APC, South, having not followed the due process as enshrined in Articles 17 and 20 of APC Constitution, 2014 as amended, pending the hearing and determination of the substantive suit in the case.” “An order of the court restraining the National Chairman, National Working Committee and APC from accepting any nomination to the office of the Deputy National Chairman of APC, South, pending the hearing and determination of the substantive suit in the case. “An order of the court compelling the National Chairman and National Working Committee to reject and disregard any name sent by the APC SW National Vice Chairman, the APC south west Caucus, the Ekiti state chairman of APC and Ekiti State APC State Caucus to fill the position of the Deputy National Chairman of APC, South, in the event that any name has already been sent pending the hearing and the determination of the substantive suit in the case. The motion on notice is supported by 26 paragraphs affidavit and a written address. In the second suit, Akinyemi is seeking six declarative orders for the determination of the following issues: “Whether the purported nomination of Sen. Abiola Ajimobi as the Deputy National Chairman of the APC, South, by the party organs and personalities sued was done in accordance with Article 20 of APC Constitution, 2014, as amended. “Whether the purported nomination of Sen. Abiola Ajimobi as the Deputy National Chairman of APC, South, was done in line with the provision of Article 17 of APC Constitution, 2014, as amended, and the established cust