The Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) on Monday said it was closely monitoring the outbreak of haemorrhagic fevers to prevent an epidemic. Its Director-General, Dr Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu, in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), said the state was prepared for both the Coronavirus and Lassa fever. “These epidemics, which have posed a global and local emergency health threat, have fueled the preparedness plan of LASEMA,” Oke-Osanyintolu said. He said the agency was collaborating with the Ministry of Health and Primary Health Care Board of the 20 Local Government Areas (LGAs) and 37 local council development areas (LCDAs). Oke-Osanyintolu said that the agency’s Epidemic Response Committee had created a communication flow-chart. He urged residents to call 767/112 to report any emergency. According to him, emergency responders and trained paramedics are ready to respond to any distress calls. The Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Yenagoa, the Bayelsa State capital, said no confirmed case of Lassa fever had been recorded. The centre clarified that clinical tests on a suspected case earlier reported on January 30 had turned out to be negative. Its spokesman Mr Ben Akpedi told NAN that all the tests conducted at the reference laboratories on the samples had been matched and the result was negative. He urged the public to continue the practice of personal hygiene. The Osun government said it would engage consultants to go round the state to get rid of rats and rodents that may cause Lassa fever. Commissioner for the Environment and Sanitation, Mr Oladepo Atanda, told NAN: “Two weeks ago, we registered some fumigation consultants that we know are capable of doing thorough fumigation. “They are to go round the cities to fumigate most of the popular places like markets, hotels, eateries and public places around after getting our license.” Also yesterday, the Plateau State government warned head teachers and cooks in the 1,990 schools benefiting from the schools feeding programme to be Lassa fever-conscious. Executive Assistant to Governor Simon Lalong, Dr Sumaye Hamza, spoke during a one-day sensitisation workshop. “As custodians of these pupils and students, you must ensure high-level of hygiene in food storage, cooking and distribution for the safety and health of the children,” she said. An epidemiologist with the state Ministry of Health, Dr Francis Dabe, warned against consuming food that rodents have touched. Dabe said: “You should not expose food or serve the children left-over food to avoid any outbreak of disease, particularly Lassa fever and diarrhoea. “It is bad for you to give the children what you know they cannot eat in their homes because of money,” he said.