  The momentum is building up. Across the 55 African countries, manufacturers’ anticipation of the phenomenal opportunity for increased global competitiveness promised by the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) is palpable, as trading under the historic agreement takes off in about five months, precisely July 1. But, while manufacturers in other African countries are hopeful and gearing up to compete under a liberalised African market, Nigerian manufacturers appear less excited by the prospects of leveraging the trade deal to become globally competitive. The Nation learnt that manufacturers’ optimism over the soon-to-be-implemented AfCFTA may have, indeed, been measured, largely due to fears that the country’s decrepit infrastructure and market information asymmetry may hurt their chances of benefiting optimally from the agreement. The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) President, Mansur Ahmed, confirmed this fear when he said as the continent awaits the take-off of AfCFTA in July, the Federal Government must address the supply side constraints of lack of infrastructure if the gains of the AfCFTA must be realised. Ahmed, who spoke at the “2020 MAN Annual Media Luncheon” in Lagos,  also said policies and regulations must be business-friendly in order to assist businesses to grow and ultimately, enhance competitiveness and boost the economies of Nigeria and other partnering African countries. AfCFTA seeks to create a continental trade bloc of 1.2 billion people, with a combined Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of about $2.5 trillion. The deal, seen as an important milestone in promoting Africa’s regional integration and helping to increase intra-African trade, commits countries to removing tariffs on 90 per cent of goods and to liberalise services. Its main objective was to create a single continental market for goods and services, with free movement of business persons and investments. President Muhammadu Buhari signed the Agreement on July 7, last year in Niamey, Niger Republic, at the 12th Extraordinary Session of the Assembly of the African Union (AU) on AfCFTA. It was signed after 16 months of foot-dragging, during which the government said it needed to thoroughly consider the deal and country-wide sensitisation and consultation of stakeholders. The delay in signing the deal came after members of the Organised Private Sector (OPS), particularly manufacturers, opposed the move. They had warned the Federal Government not to sign the policy document as doing so will cripple the economy and leave more Nigerians unemployed. Many of them expressed fears that the deal will be injurious to the nation’s industrial sector and the economy generally. They argued, for instance, that the agreement will turn Nigeria into a dumping ground for imported foreign goods. They insisted that the likely negative impacts of the agreement on private businesses and the economy far outweigh its supposed benefits. However, proponents of the free trade deal kicked their heels in, insisting that AfCFTA – the world’s largest free trade area since the creation of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) in 1994 – will, for instance, boost intra-African trade by about 60 per cent by 2022. Currently, intra-African trade is put at just 16 per cent of its total trade, compared with 19 per cent in Latin America, 51 per cent in Asia, 54 per cent in North America and 70 per cent in Europe. African countries, according to experts, are not trading among themselves; their fundamental role in global trade has been to provide raw commodities in exchange for manufactured goods. For instance, the President of African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank), Prof Benedict Oramah, said Africa is the continent that trades the least with itself, despite the strong relationship between intra-regional trade and industrial development and economic progress. Oramah, who spoke at a meeting of MAN in Lagos, said AfCFTA is expected to bring the share of intra-African trade to 22 per cent by 2022, up from about 16 per cent. It will also bring total intra-African trade to about $250 billion, from about $160 billion. Speaking on: From commodities to a global manufacturing hub: The road ahead for Nigeria, the Afreximbank boss added that since manufactures account for about 60 per cent of total intra-African trade, intra-regional trade in manufactures can rise to more than $150 billion by 2022. While noting that “The opportunity for African manufacturers is, therefore, phenomenal,” Oramah specifically said that the preferences that AfCFTA offers can make Nigerian manufactured goods more competitive in many African markets and can also make it possible for integration into regional and global supply chains. He said: “A cotton yarn producer in Nigeria can, for example, become a supplier to a fabric manufacturer in Senegal, replacing yarn imports from Asia. And as capacity is gained in the context of intra-regional trade, manufacturers can expect to gradually become competitive globally.” That is not all. The president of the premier institution driving African integration and trade also said the rising middle class in the country and Africa, as well as the rapid urbanisation will expand demand for manufactured goods. According to him, it is projected that Nigeria’s urban population will reach 264 million by 2030, which is equal to 15 per cent of the projected population in that year. “These will spur demand for critical infrastructure, housing, processed food, fast moving consumer goods (FMCGs) and a host of other light manufactures. “It is the manufacturing industry that will supply these items. Related to the foregoing is the gradual exit of China from labour intensive light manufacturing. Today, Nigeria and Africa import $1 billion and $43 billion of light manufactures from china.  “As China shifts to more capital-intensive manufacturing due to rising labour costs, those goods have to be supplied by somebody. Nigeria and indeed, the entire African continent will have themselves to blame if this projected supply gap is filled from outside the continent,” Oramah said.  Dearth of infrastructure, others Given the fragile nature of Nigeria’s economy, it is doubtful if the manufacturing sector is in any position to fill the projected supply gap. With the economy lacking in key infrastructure, the sector is too fragile to become competitive under the AfCFTA or even withstand competition from other countries. Ahmed perhaps, put the situation in perspective when he said: “We cannot achieve competitiveness without the provision of infrastructure such as good road networks and electricity, not only within African countries, but also across the borders. “There is also the aspect of provision of soft infrastructure – like visa, tariffs, and foreign exchange – that will help ease the process of carrying out business transactions between countries. We must address all these issues since the AfCFTA is not just about trade in goods, but also trade in services.” According to him, modern industry competitiveness depends to a great extent on provision of adequate and efficient infrastructure. “From the availability of power and energy to transport and logistics, the role of infrastructure cannot be overemphasised in trade and economic development on the continent,” he said. For instance, while pointing out that transportation is vital to enhancing competitiveness in trade, the MAN chief said due to poor infrastructure, it will cost a business owner in Nigeria more to transport goods from Lagos to Kano than it will cost a Chinese business owner to transport the same goods from China to Lagos. The MAN boss also said electricity is a vital input for manufacturing process to the extent that it constitutes up to 40 per cent of  production cost. He, therefore, said increasing the tariff of this core input will have drastic negative effect on the Gross National Product (GNP), GDP, disposable income, consumption, consumer price index, employment, and government revenue from corporate taxation and others. However, the lack of infrastructure is not peculiar to Nigeria; the problem cuts across most, if not all the 55 African countries. The continent’s infrastructure needs, according to Afreximbank, is between $130 and $170 billion yearly, with a financing gap in the range of between $70billion and $110 billion. Yet, Nigeria’s share of the continent’s huge infrastructure gap is mind-boggling. For instance, the Financial Derivatives Company (FDC) said the country requires $15 billion, about N4.59 trillion, worth of investments yearly for 15 years to adequately develop her infrastructure nationwide. The research firm, in its bi-monthly Economic and Business report for February 2018, said: “Nigeria’s under-investment in infrastructure has left it with a core stock of infrastructure of just 20 per cent to 25 per cent of GDP, compared to an average of 70 per cent of the GDP for more advanced middle-income countries of similar size. The FDC said bridging this gap will require investing about $15 billion yearly for the next 15 years, asking: “Given the government’s limited access to international debt, revenue constraints and competing priorities, the major question is where will funding be sourced?” The  firm said: “One of the biggest constraints to Nigeria’s competitiveness, economic growth and diversification is the crippling infrastructure deficit, estimated at $300 billion, about N30 trillion, by the African Development Bank (AfDB).” When considered that Nigeria, according to the Vice-President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo, spent N2.7 trillion on infrastructure in 2016 and 2017 fiscal years, for instance, the challenge   infrastructure gap poses to Nigeria’s competitiveness in global trade comes into bold relief. The Senior Manager, Intra-African Trade Initiative, Afreximbank, Gainmore Zanamwe, said because of the poor state of trade-related infrastructure and weak transit and logistics infrastructure, transport costs  are 63 per cent higher in Africa, compared to the average in developed economies. Zanamwe also said poor trade facilitation was responsible for the low intra-African trade. According to him, it takes up to 12 days to clear goods in some African borders as compared to an average of two days in developed countries and costs around $450 per day. He added that because of supply side constraints, the continent’s level of industrialisation remained low and as a result, the range of goods available for trade is limited and this gap is then filled by other countries outside the continent. Zanamwe listed other constraints to include lack of internationally accredited quality infrastructure and harmonised trade standards, low implementation of regional trade commitments, and limited access to trade finance, among others.