As the newly constituted Constitution Review Committee members at the National Assembly commence work, Abuja Bureau Chief, ONYEDI OJIABOR, reports on previous constitution amendment efforts and the current areas of focus. The Senate on February 10, 2020 inaugurated a 56-member constitution review committee. With the swearing in of the committee members, the senate appears set to go into another round of alteration of the 1999 Constitution. So, for the National Assembly and most other Nigerians, the Constitution is work in progress. Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, who named Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, a lawyer, as chairman of the committee, explained that the committee cut across the country to ensure equitable representation of parts of the country. Senate principal officers, one senator from each state of the federation, and another two sets of senators from the six geopolitical regions, are also members of the committee. Lawan may have captured the essence of the review exercise when he said that an enhanced constitution is a good starting point. A window of participation was also created for stakeholders to be involved with their contributions, submissions, and viewpoints which will form part of the materials the committee will feed on. On the apparent unending alteration of the Constitution, the Senate President posited that when the process becomes foolproof, Nigerians can be rest assured that it will take a longer time before new realities possibly trigger demands for amendments. SCOPE OF AMENDMENT Omo-Agege has explained the task of the committee when he said it would be to find consensus through compromise in order to meet the ever-changing needs of Nigerians. The committee, he said, will consider the alteration of the Sixth schedule to make provision for new items, the establishment of National and State Houses of Assembly, pre-election matters tribunal, governorship pre-election matters tribunals and presidential pre-election matters tribunal, including time limits for the disposal of all pre-election matters before the conduct of the general elections. He added that the committee will also consider the need for devolution of power, full local government fiscal autonomy, full autonomy of the judiciary in the area of administration of justice, youth inclusiveness in governance, gender parity or affirmative action. Also of importance is the assurance that the committee will consider the recommendations of the 2014 Constitutional Conference and the Governor Nasir el-Rufai-led Committee on restructuring. It may be stressed that devolution of power remained one of the most contentious items that the National Assembly has failed to achieve in previous alterations. Some vested interests have always shot down devolution of power on the guise that it is another name for restructuring. Will it survive this time around? During the seventh National Assembly, one of the key constitutional amendments approved by the Assembly and endorsed by at least 35 State Assemblies was the reorganisation of the Exclusive Legislative Lists. Railway, aviation, power, were moved from Exclusive List to Concurrent List. The then President, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, withheld assent to the amendment. Other key amendments by the 7th Assembly included separation of Office of Attorney General from Office of Minister/Commissioner of Justice; Financial autonomy (First Line Charge) and security of tenure for the office of the Attorney General. The intent was that you could only remove the Attorney General by a Presidential request supported by two-thirds majority of the Senate. Even in hiring one, the National Judicial Council (NJC) has to advertise and make about three recommendations to the President to choose from and nominate to the National Assembly. The thinking was that the amendment would have substantially removed the Office of Attorney General from the political president and governors. There was the amendment to include basic education and primary healthcare in fundamental and justifiable human rights. Independent candidature, inclusion of electoral offences as grounds for disqualification of candidates for election, mandatory presentation of State of the Nation address to a joint session of National Assembly by the President once yearly and straightening of processes for state creation, were all adopted. Others also adopted by the seventh National Assembly included removal of presidential assent of constitution amendment bills. The lawmakers reasoned that Nigerian Constitution is modeled on American Constitution. They recalled that in Hollingsworth v State of Virginia (1778), the Supreme Court of the United States held that ‘while it is permissible, a presidential signature is unnecessary’. In Germany, France, Spain, and others the practice is the same, the lawmakers said. For them, unlike other bills, a bill to amend even a clause of the Nigerian Constitution requires the approval of at least 24 states (2/3 of State Assemblies). Financial autonomy for Office of the Auditor-General of the Federation, 30-day time limit for the transmission of assent or veto of a bill by president or governor failing which it automatically becomes law, were adopted. In the US, it’s 10 days (minus weekends). There are also amendment to Section 59, providing for override of presidential veto (where necessary) by two-thirds majority of members of both Houses within seven days, compulsory presentation of budget estimates by president/governor latest September and passing of same latest December 31. There are also reduction of the period the president/governor could approve expenditure from the federal/state treasury based on previous year’s budget (in the absence of a new budget) from six to three months, financial autonomy for State Assemblies; Establishment of State Assembly Service Commission, sanction for disobeying legislative summons, inclusion of all former presidents of the senate and speakers of the House of Representatives in the membership of the National Council of State, creation of Office of the Accountant-General of Federal Government different from Accountant-General of the Federation for accountability: Prohibition of courts/tribunals from granting a stay of proceedings on account of interlocutory appeals in electoral matters, conferment of criminal jurisdiction for electoral offences on the Federal High Court and timeframe for the disposal of pre-election matters, were parts of the amendments by the Seventh National Assembly. THE FOURTH ALTERATION The Eight National Assembly, which conducted the Fourth alteration of the 1999 Constitution, believed that generally, the objective of the constitution alteration process is to strengthen institutions of government for greater efficiency and to deliver the common goods of state to all citizens. Highlights of Fourth Alteration bills passed by the National Assembly included bills passed by the Seventh Assembly but not assented to: Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Fourth Alteration) Bill, No. 1, 2017 (Composition of Members of the Council of State)  The bill sought to amend the Third Schedule to include former Presidents of the Senate and Speakers of the House of Representatives in the composition of the Council of State; Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Fourth Alteration) Bill, No. 2, 2017 (Authorisation of Expenditure)  seeks to alter sections 82 and 122 of the Constitution to reduce the period within which the president or governor of a state may authorise the withdrawal of monies from the consolidated revenue fund in the absence of an appropriation act from 6 months to 3 months; Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Fourth Alteration) Bill, No. 4, 2017 (Financial Autonomy of State Legislatures) – This alteration seeks to provide for the funding of the Houses of Assembly of States directly from the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the State. Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Fourth Alteration) Bill, No. 5, 2017 (Distributable Pool Account) – This Bill seeks to alter section 162 of the Constitution to abrogate the State Joint Local Government Accounts and empower each Local Government Council to maintain its own special account into which all allocations due to the Local Government Council shall be directly paid from the Federation Account and from the Government of the State and also to make provisions for savings in the Federation Account before distribution to other levels of Government. It was not approved by the State Assemblies. Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Fourth Alteration) Bill, No. 6, 2017 (Local Government) – The alterations here are aimed at strengthening local government administration in Nigeria by guaranteeing the democratic existence, funding, and tenure of local government councils. Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Fourth Alteration) Bill, No. 8, 2017 (The Legislature) – This alteration seeks among other things to alter sections 4, 51, 67, 68, 93 and 109 of the Constitution to provide immunity for members of the legislature in respect of words spoken or written at plenary sessions or at committee proceedings; institutionalize legislative bureaucracy in the Constitution like the civil service commission in the executive and the Judicial Service Commission in the judiciary; and, obligate the President to attend a joint meeting of the National Assembly once a year to deliver a state of the nation address; Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Fourth Alteration) Bill, No. 9, 2017 (Political Parties and Electoral Matters)  This seeks to alter section 134 and 179 to provide sufficient time for INEC to conduct bye-elections; and section 225 to empower the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to de-register political parties for non-fulfillment of certain conditions such as breach of registration requirements and failure to secure/win either a presidential, governorship, local government chairmanship or a seat in the National or State Assembly or a Councillorship. Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Fourth Alteration) Bill, No. 10, 2017 (Presidential Assent)  This seeks to alter sections 58, 59 and 100 to resolve the impasse where the president or governor neglects to signify his/her assent to a bill from the National Assembly or withhold such assent. This is to enable timely passage of laws for good governance. Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Fourth Alteration) Bill, No. 11, 2017 (Timeframe for submitting the names of ministerial or commissioners nominees) – This Bill seeks to alter the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 to set a timeframe within which the president or a governor shall forward to the Senate or State House of Assembly names of nominees for confirmation as ministers or commissioners and provide for attachment of portfolio. Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Fourth Alteration) Bill, No. 14, 2017 (Independent Candidature) This seeks to alter sections 65, 106, 131, and 177 of the Constitution. This is aimed at expanding the political space and broadening the options for the electorate by allowing for independent candidacy in all elections. Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Fourth Alteration) Bill, No. 15, 2017 (The Police) – This Bill seeks to alter the Constitution in sections 34, 35, 39, 214, 215, 216 and the Third Schedule to change the name of the Police from “Nigeria Police Force” to “Nigeria Police” in order to reflect their core mandate. Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Fourth Alteration) Bill, No. 16, 2017 (Restriction of Tenure of the President and Governor) – This Bill seeks to restrict a person who was sworn-in as President or Governor to complete the term of the elected President from contesting for the same office for more than one term. Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Fourth Alteration) Bill, No. 17, 2017 (Separation of the Office of Accountant-General) – This Bill seeks to alter section 84 of the Constitution to establish the office of the Accountant-General of the Federal Government separate from office of the Accountant-General of the Federation. Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Fourth Alteration) Bill, No. 18, 2017 (Office of the Auditor-General) – This Bill seeks to make the office of the Auditor-General for the Federation and for the State financially independent by placing them on first-line charges in the Consolidated Revenue funds of the Federation and of the States. Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Fourth Alteration) Bill, No. 20, 2017 (Judiciary)  This bill contains a vast array of alterations with regards to the Judiciary such as the composition of the National Judicial Council, and empowering Justices of the Supreme Court and Court of Appeal to hear certain applications in chambers thereby enhancing the speedy dispensation of justice. Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Fourth Alteration) Bill, No. 21, 2017 (Determination of Pre-Election Matters) – This Bill seeks to, among other things, make provisions for timelines for the determination of pre-election disputes. Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Fourth Alteration) Bill, No. 22, 2017 (Civil Defence) – This Bill seeks to reflect the establishment and core functions of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps. It is a consequential amendment because of the inclusion of the national security and civil defence as an item in the Exclusive Legislative List under the Second Schedule to the Constitution. BILL TO OVERRIDE PRESIDENTIAL VETO Other important bills include constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Fourth Alteration) Bill, No. 24, 2017 (Procedure for overriding Presidential veto in Constitutional Alteration) – This Bill seeks to, among other things, provide the procedure for passing a Constitution Alteration Bill where the President withholds assent. Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Fourth Alteration) Bill, No. 26, 2017 (Investments and Securities Tribunal) This bill seeks to establish the Investments and Securities Tribunal under the Constitution. Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Fourth Alteration) Bill, No. 27, 2017 (Reduction of Age Qualification) – This Bill seeks to alter the Sections 65, 106, 131, 177 of the Constitution to reduce the age qualification for the offices of the President, Governor, membership of the House of Representatives and State Houses of Assembly. Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Fourth Alteration) Bill, No. 28, 2017 (Authorisation of Expenditure 1) This Bill seeks to provide for the time within which the President or Governor shall lay the Appropriation Bill before the National Assembly or House of Assembly to encourage the early presentation and passage of Appropriation Bills. BILLS NOT PASSED BY THE EIGHT NASS Bills negative (not passed) by the Eight National Assembly included: Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Fourth Alteration) Bill, No. 3, 2017 (Devolution of Powers) – This seeks to alter the Second Schedule, Part I and II to move certain items to the Concurrent Legislative List to give more legislative powers to States. It also delineates the extent to which the federal legislature and state assemblies can legislate on the items that have been moved to the Concurrent Legislative List. Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Fourth Alteration) Bill, No. 7, 2017 (State Creation and boundary Adjustment) – This essentially seeks to alter section 8 of the Constitution to ensure that only democratically elected local government councils participate in the process of State creation and boundary adjustment.  It also removed ambiguities in the extant provisions to enhance clarity with respect to the procedure for state creation. Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Fourth Alteration) Bill, No. 12, 2017 (Appointment of Minister from the FCT) – The Bill seeks to alter section 147 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 to provide for the appointment of a minister from the FCT, Abuja to ensure that the FCT is represented in the Executive Council of the Federation. Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Fourth Alteration) Bill, No. 13, 2017 (Change of Names of some Local Government Councils) – This Bill seeks to alter the Constitution to provide for change in the names of some Local Government Councils and the definition of the boundary of the FCT, Abuja. Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Fourth Alteration) Bill, No. 19, 2017 (Separation of the office of the Attorney-General of the Federation and of the State from the office of the Minister or Commissioner for Justice) – This Bill seeks to alter sections 150, 174, 195, 211, 318 and the Third Schedule to the Constitution to separate the office of the Minister or Commissioner for Justice from that of the Attorney-General of the Federation and of states so as to create an independent office of the Attorney-General of the Federation insulated from partisanship. It also seeks to redefine the role of the Attorney-General, provide a fixed tenure, provide the age and qualification for appointment and also for a more stringent process for the removal of the Attorney-General. Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Fourth Alteration) Bill, No. 23, 2017 (Citizenship and Indigeneship) – This Bills seeks to alter section 25 of the Constitution to guarantee a married woman’s right to choosing either her indigeneship by birth or by marriage for the purposes of appointment or election. Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Fourth Alteration) Bill, No. 25, 2017 (Removal of the Law-making powers of the Executive from the Constitution) – This Bill seeks to alter section 315 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 to remove the law-making powers of the Executive Arm of Government. Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Fourth Alteration) Bill, No. 29, 2017 (Deletion of the NYSC Decree from the Constitution)  The Bill seeks to alter the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 to delete the National Youth Service Corps Decree from the Constitution so that it can be subject to the regular process of amendment. Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Fourth Alteration) Bill, No. 30, 2017 (Deletion of the Public Complaints Commission Act from the Constitution) – The Bill seeks to alter the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 to delete the Public Complaints Commission Act from the Constitution so that it can be subject to the regular process of amendment. Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Fourth Alteration) Bill, No. 31, 2017 (Deletion of the National Securities Act from the Constitution) – The Bill seeks to alter the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 to delete the National Securities Act from the Constitution so that it can be subject to the regular process of amendment. Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Fourth Alteration) Bill, No. 32, 2017 (Deletion of the Land Use Act from the Constitution) – The Bill seeks to alter the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 to delete the Land Use Act from the Constitution so that it can be subject to the regular process of amendment. Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Fourth Alteration) Bill, No. 33, 2017 (Deletion of SIEC from the Constitution) – The Bill seeks to alter the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 to expunge State Independent Electoral Commission so that INEC takes charge of all elections at the local level. High expectations With preparation for the Fifth Alteration of the 1999 Constitution nearly perfected, all eyes are on the National Assembly to see how far it can go. Besides, National Assembly watchers are equally interested to observe that the exercise is not turned into a jamboree with members of the committee turning deaf ear to the cry of Nigerians to undo the many undoing of Nigeria. Acknowledging that constitution making is a serious business, they advised that the committee members should fasten their belts to do a thorough work.