 HEAD of Department (HoD) of Mass Communication of the Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida University Lapai (IBBUL), Niger State, Dr Ternenge Ende,  has urged campus journalists and student-writers to adhere to the ethics of journalism. Ende said doing so would safeguard their reputation, and ensure they don’t face threats and other job hazards. He called on them to ensure they first seek facts, investigate same thoroughly, before they publish stories. Ende spoke at a workshop organised by the National Union of Campus Journalists (NUCJ), Northcentral zone, IBBUL. The don, who said campus journalists are not immuned to professional hazards like their senior colleagues in the mainstream, advised practitioners to remain focused, hardworking, and committed even in the face of threats and victimisation from authorities. He maintained that amid the criticisms of some reports done by student-writers and journalists, they have also helped to set agenda for school authorities, fight against oppressive government’s policies, helped to expose some negative ills on campuses, and restore sanity in the tertiary education system. Further, Ende noted that campus journalism has helped to fight and reclaim students’ rights, while also improving the academic standards and infrastructural facilities in many tertiary institutions nationwide. While enlightening the students on how to write a good pitch, Ende, urged them to always seek facts and clarifications, in order to write accurate, reliable, factual and credible news stories. Meanwhile, the President, National Union of Campus Journalists, Comrade Ibrahim Adeyemi, has condemned molestation and harassment of campus journalists across Nigeria. In a statement, Adeyemi blamed the authorities for depriving journalists of their rights and obligations. The statement explained how journalists and media houses were intimidated by the government. The association also lamented how the nation’s corrupt system is tarnishing the future of journalism by impeding investigative journalism. “The maltreatment/molestation has made the mainstream journalists not being able to do their jobs. It is also terrifying the mind of campus journalists who are now scared of being harassed or detained  by government for investigating issues that border  with the government as the result of serial detention and torture of the journalists,’’the statement added.