UPCN Property Development Company (UPDC) Plc on Monday opened application list for a N15.96 billion rights issue as the real estate company seeks new equity funds to deleverage and reposition its operations. UPDC is offering 15.96 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each to existing shareholders at a price of N1 per share. The rights issue was pre-allotted on the basis of 43 new ordinary shares for seven ordinary shares held as at the close of business on September 30, 2019. The application period for the right issue started yesterday and will end at the close of business on Friday March 13, 2020. Shareholders of UPDC had earlier approved a resolution authorising the board to raise up to N16 billion in new capital through issuance of equities, bonds and other convertible and nom-convertible securities. Shareholders also approved a resolution empowering the board to obtain a N16 billion bridging finance from its parent company, UAC of Nigeria (UACN). Nigeria’s oldest surviving conglomerate, UAC of Nigeria (UACN) Plc had unveiled a massive restructuring programme that would see the unbundling of its publicly quoted real estate subsidiary, UPDC and its associated company- UPDC Real Estate Investment Trust (UPDC REIT). Under the first part of the multi-structured restructuring plan, UPDC will float a rights issue of N15.96 billion to reduce outstanding debt to a level that it is serviceable from recurring cashflows. After this, UPDC will unbundle its shareholding in UPDC REIT by directly transferring the shares to its shareholders on the basis of post-rights issue shareholdings. Thus UPDC’s shareholders will become direct shareholders in UPDC REIT. On the second part, UACN will unbundle its majority equity stake in UPDC by directly transferring its shareholdings in the real estate company to UACN’s shareholders, thus making the existing UACN’s shareholders the direct owners of shares in UPDC. UACN will also unbundle the shares of UPDC REIT allocated to it under the UPDC-UPDCREIT transaction to its shareholders, thus making UACN’s shareholders direct owners in UPDC REIT. “On the account of UPDC’s unbundling of its interest in the UPDC REIT, post the implementation of the respective strategic initiatives described above, each UAC shareholder will hold shares in three separate entities-UAC, UPDC and the UPDC REIT benefitting from the future prospects of each,” UACN and UPDC stated in a joint statement on the proposed transactions. With the completion of the rights issue and the unbundling of UPDC and UACN, UPDC will no longer own any units in UPDC REIT, UPDC REIT will cease to be an associate of UPDC, UPDC shareholders will become direct unitholders in UPDC REIT in addition to their shares in UPDC, UPDC will cease to be a subsidiary of UACN and UACN’s shareholders will become direct shareholders in UPDC and unitholders in UPDC REIT. 