 Ikeja Electric Plc (IE) has donated an ultra-modern phototherapy machine and clinical supplies to General Hospital, Ikorodu, Lagos State as part of its corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities towards improvement of healthcare. At the presentation at the hospital, IE team comprising staff members from the headquarters in Ikeja and Ikorodu Business Unit presented the items to the management of the Hospital in Ikorodu. The company’s Chief Commercial Officer (CCO), Mrs. Enobong Ezekiel, expressed the DisCo’s commitment to impact on lives and give back to the society. Mrs. Ezekiel said: “Ikeja Electric is a customer-centric organisation. We, the management, is committed to ensuring that we make impact on communities where we operate. That is why we are here. Today is significant to us too as the entire world celebrates love. For us at Ikeja Electric, our theme this year is ‘Clean Love,’ so, we are celebrating pure love and saying ‘no to drugs’, as well. “Being here today is motivated by love and to donate the phototherapy equipment and clinical items to the Paediatric Unit is something significant that will add value to what already exist in the hospital.  Ikeja Electric has also come to appreciate the management and staff for providing healthcare services to the neighbourhood and residents of Ikorodu town. We love the fact that you are our customer. And we have come to do our community service.” While commending IE, the Medical Director, General Hospital Ikorodu, Dr. Olufunmilayo Bankole, said: “Ikeja Electric gave us a donation of a phototherapy machine. As a hospital, we are really elated to receive them. We are very happy that we have other organisations who like to partner with government to make healthcare service in Lagos State much better than it is. “That phototherapy machine will serve a lot of children in treating jaundice. And we believe that if we are able to treat more people, we will be able to have a better health in our population in Lagos State. This phototherapy machine is going to go a long way in making a difference in the lives of these children. “We want to say congratulations to Ikeja Electric. This is a noble cause. We know if they continue to do this as well as other agencies or individuals, who would like to partner with government to improve healthcare services in Lagos state, we will really welcome them to Ikorodu General Hospital,” she added. 