Editorial  Concerned parents, irrespective of gender, must have received the news of Leah Sharibu’s motherhood with sadness. Sadness not because bearing children is a bad thing, (indeed, new babies are bundles of joy), but because there is time for everything. We can only imagine how shattered her parents must have been on hearing the news, with the source being Ahmad Salkida, a journalist who has links with Boko Haram. Salkida corroborated SaharaReporters’ story that Sharibu had given birth to a baby boy to one of the top commanders of Boko Haram. She was among 112 students of Girls Technical College, Dapchi, Yobe State, abducted by the terrorists on February 19, 2018. Five of them died in captivity while the rest were freed about a month later. Sharibu is however the only survivor of the lot held by the terror group for refusing to renounce Christianity. Since then, there have been pressures on the Federal Government to do everything possible to set her free. Military authorities however say they are being cautious in their approach to her issue so as not to put her in harm’s way in their bid to secure freedom for her. This was the situation until news of her delivery of the baby boy was broken, apparently after she was forced to convert to Islam and forcibly married to the unnamed Boko Haram commander. Salkida had in a post on Twitter asked a rhetorical question as to what people expected would be the consequence of Sharibu’s continued stay in captivity: “Why, I wonder, do we pretend that leaving Leah behind won’t result in pregnancy? Since the terror group announced condemning her to slavery, is there any step or collective focus on preventing similar occurrences? She’s a mother, but I don’t know about the gender of the baby.” What makes Leah’s case particularly pathetic is that there is time for everything in life. A girl with her kind of conviction must have had great plan of what she hoped to become in future.  It is doubtful if becoming a wife at her tender age of 17, and to a bully, was part of the plan. For sure too, her present plight could not have been her parents’ plan for her. They sent her to school in a region where it is not so fashionable to send the girl-child to school, so she could acquire western education and thus become useful to herself and the society in future. If they had wanted her to follow the trajectory she now finds herself, they would have found someone who, in their estimation, is compatible with their daughter, the minimum qualification of course being a Christian like them, and even if a Muslim, at least one of her choice. Never in their wildest imagination could they have expected their daughter to end up in the hands of religious fundamentalists that she is now compelled to live with and even bear a child for one of them. But then, like many parents in their shoes would do, Sharibu’s parents still want their daughter back, notwithstanding that she is now a baby-mother; a thing they least bargained for. Dr. Gloria Puldu, a senior lecturer at the Department of Political Science, University of Jos, who spoke for the family after the news was broken said, “I have seen reports that Leah had a baby boy. That is just a rumour as far as we are concerned. What we even desire is to see a proof of life so that we see Leah by ourselves. If they are able to have Leah safe, we will understand.” She added: “The most important thing is that we want her to be alive. And if she is alive, we will praise God for that. They should release her, despite whatever condition she is in. That is all; it doesn’t matter whether she is pregnant or with a baby. Is it not better to have your child alive? So, it doesn’t matter, all we are interested in is her life and safety.” But we would also do well to ponder Salkida’s question: “Since the terror group announced condemning her to slavery, is there any step or collective focus on preventing similar occurrences? We cannot agree more. 