Reader, in response to Minister Lai Mohammed’s alleged claim that Nigeria is one of the safest places to live in, we are repeating, in part, one of last year’s PU entries under the above title (12/5/19). Things are grave indeed, but the minister and his ilk do not seem to appreciate that fact fully if he said that. Here goes. ‘…Everybody agrees that the country’s insecurity is in the red. (It is even bleeping right now. That means, it is near to explosion). Why, it’s got so bad now that people don’t know which of the three ‘trades’ to follow because they are all paying so well: kidnapping, armed banditry or insurgency. Look at the week’s headlines: 34 killed in four states; Cult war claims 11 in Edo; Boko Haram kills 11 in Borno; Herdsmen kill 11 in Taraba; Gunmen kill monarch in a Sokoto community, etc. The people who have been fingered with proof in crime have been unbelievably ordinary. They are like you and me. Take this example. In the newspapers, there was the story of a woman who went to the bank and in the hall, she recognised someone who looked quite familiar until she recollected that he was the man who had abducted her sometime before. He was found out by a certain scar on a certain part of his body which she noted when he raped her repeatedly and the fact that he had well over N90 million in his account which he could not account for. That man was just an ordinary man like you and I, if you don’t count the recognisable dressing of the Tuareg bandits. Now, how do we tell which ones among us have an extraordinary appetite for evil, apart from bandits or boko haram? Ladies and gentlemen, the time has come for us all to admit the unthinkable: we have a problem. What is worse, all our problems are self-inflicted. That’s right. Our security problems are self-inflicted. I would like to state that we made our insurgents, bandits and kidnappers. We created our own monsters, and, unfortunately, we have all become their victims. Someone once said something to the effect that the most brilliant among us become doctors and lawyers and engineers and professors. The not-so-brilliant become politicians. The ones who are not interested in reading become robbers and assassins. The ones who cannot read and are not interested in reading become medicine men. And now, the medicine men control the robbers; the robbers control the politicians and the politicians are controlling the doctors, lawyers, engineers and professors. How true. With the right orientation provided in excellent leadership, we could have leaped over our shameful negligence of yesterday, and prevented all the things that have now come upon us today: kidnapping, insurgency, callous political class, banditry, raping of women, intertribal war, chaos and disharmony. We have lived most carelessly and have behaved most atrociously as a people, and have brought upon us this state of insecurity. Until Nigerians are able to get past themselves, there can be no headway. To start with, as a people, we do not seem to be able to get the idea that the tribe or ethnic group or religious group we belong to cannot be superior to the interests of the country. Not one of these smaller units had or even has a recognised flag or a national anthem; yet the flag and anthem we all salute and sing are flagrantly disrespected. When the average Nigerian perpetually defends his tribe or religion against the interest of the flag, there is a huge problem. This problem was pointed out long ago, but the media were thought to be crying wolf. The natural consequence of this was of course that criminals and offenders against the flag could hide, and frequently did, behind their ethnic unit or group, which vociferously and blindly defended the unrepentant sinner, no matter the flagrancy of the felonious offence. Now tell me, which among us, being so empowered by our unit, would not go out and strut and cause more mayhem? This is what is happening now: people know that their ethnic or religious units are more powerful than the country; so their loyalties are more inward-directed. Our state institutions have not achieved the desired purposes of unification. The tribes still rule, ok! The religions still rule, ok! For another, the state has found it difficult to prosecute socioeconomic and sociopolitical offenders even for treasonable offences. The reason the law exists is to reign us all in. However, when the law fails to reign in the first wave of offenders, the rest will also go free. Since the law has failed woefully to successfully prosecute and punish the first wave of state offenders, there can be only one lesson to learn from that – that it is okay, folks, to commit treason against the state; your tribe or religion will set you free. They are not supposed to be the examples that the young ones follow, but they are. I understand that in China, newly appointed state officials are given a tour of the prisons so that they would know where they would end up should they misbehave. In extreme cases, I understand they may even be executed. What we have here instead is a baffling condonement and tacit endorsement of fraud. People are stealing the country blind in billions and trillions, and the state is making deals with them just to be able to get back ‘some of it’. It is unheard of! State governors who have robbed their states into stupors award themselves pensions in billions and we are still looking on! Politicians are earning N39m a month while the minimum wage is a mere N30 thousand a month. On account of these people, social amenities do not exist and we are all looking on! What kind of people are we? Add to that the fact that the young ones see the greedy hearts of their elders, and they want the same things these elders are flaunting before them, naturally. However, they become angry when they do not gain access easily because of lack of jobs, for instance, but they take it out on the equally hapless ones near them. This is not to excuse bad behaviour but to explain that we cannot plant thorns and hope to reap roses. The eighteen to twenty-something year-olds are the prime of a country’s work force but Nigeria appears to have donated its own prime age group to crime because of the exampled greed of the country’s fathers. Nigeria needs to put in place a programme by which the young know they can access education, sustenance, and housing like any other citizen.’ Well, reader, since that article was published, there have been developments. ‘Amotekun’, a security outfit, has since been put in place by the southwest states’ governors to fight insecurity. There are rumours that weaponized drones have been imported into the country by some people. The Adamawa state CAN chairman was beheaded by boko haram or bandits as seen in a shared video. Things are getting worse. Yet, the minister says the country is one of the safest? This is no different from Minister Fashola saying Nigerian roads are not that bad or Ministers Adewole and Ngige saying we have enough medical doctors at a ratio of about one to five hundred thousand. What is wrong with our political class in Nigeria? The edification of the state of insecurity only breeds angst and more angst. No meaningful developments can take place in that state. Innovative thinking requires a state of calmness and security. Let us rather work towards that goal.