Committed to ensure that youths in Lagos State received skills that will make them become employable and self-sufficient, the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF) has partnered with the United States African Development Foundation (USADF to improve the lots of young people, writes ROBERT EGBE.  The Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF), in partnership with an independent American government agency, the United States African Development Foundation (USADF), is set to improve the lots of young people in Lagos State by providing skills for them to be able to take advantage of the employment and entrepreneurship opportunities in Lagos’ growing economy. The agencies have agreed to contribute an equal share of $5 million, to pool $10 million over the next five years to ensure that 15,000 youths gain world-class training in selected fields of endeavours, under the “LSETF-USADF Employability Programme.” On Wednesday, February 12, 2020, representatives from the LSETF and USADF met in Ikeja, Lagos to progress toward the actualisation of this lofty objective with the grant signing ceremony and public presentation to the 11 Vocational Training Centres (VTCs) saddled with the responsibility of implementing the training curricula. The VTCs were selected after successful completion of the due diligence and project development phases of the initiative. The ceremony was the second step by both agencies to implement their strategies following their signing of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) in May, 2019 in Washington DC. The highlight of the mutually beneficial 5-year MoU will have both parties fund a Youth-led Enterprise Initiative, aimed at increasing market attractiveness of youths in Lagos to gain access to employment, create more jobs and generate income. Through the partnership, both parties would provide the equal sum of $2 million annually for the next five years to train 3,000 youths between the ages of 18 and 35, yearly to gain globally competitive employment. Mrs. Yetunde Arobieke, Commissioner for Wealth Creation and Employment, Lagos State, said the Lagos State government is taking deliberate steps to fulfil its promise to our young and productive population with the award of grants to the 11 Vocational Training Centres (VTCs). “We hope that beyond the total number of youths who will benefit from this programme, many others will be inspired to embrace self-development based on the positive impact of this initiative. “The expectation from the Lagos State government is high. So, I implore the VTCs, whom we are passing the responsibility for the successful implementation of agreed curricula that will equip our youths with relevant skills, enabling them to hold their own against their peers anywhere in the world to be committed,” she said. ‘With this partnership, we are confident that we would solve significantly the employability challenge that has rendered thousands of our youth unemployable and unable to fend for themselves’ Mr. C.D. Glin, USADF President and Chief Executive Officer said: “It is essential that the investments USADF make in Nigeria, alongside partners such as LSETF, to address youth unemployment prioritise entrepreneurship, job creation and placement, and income generation. “To the VTCs, I urge you to serve as guiding forces and mentors to these youth, impacting them beyond relevant skills as we demonstrate that perseverance, coupled with profitable skills produces great results. “At USADF, we had always thought of working and bringing solutions to Africa; we found Lagos State already set and we can match and build on that momentum. We are taking the lead, guidance and operations of LSETF on how to further create entrepreneurship and employment opportunities. “We also believe that partnership is about shared sacrifices and commitment, which we have entered with LSETF for the next five years.” The Chairman, Board of Trustees, LSETF Mrs. Ifueko Omoigui-Okauru said: “I thank the USADF for the confidence they repose in this strategic programme designed to tackle unemployment head on. This collaboration of both agencies indicates our common line of action, which is to create employment and entrepreneurship opportunities. “Indeed, with this partnership, we are confident that we would solve significantly the employability challenge that has rendered thousands of our youth unemployable and unable to fend for themselves.” The Acting Executive Secretary, LSETF, Mrs. Teju Abisoye, also echoed the same level of confidence about the success and impact of the initiative. “This collaboration between both agencies is anchored on our shared commitment to creating employment and entrepreneurship opportunities for young people. We are, indeed, confident that we would solve the employability challenge significantly. So, it goes without saying that our efforts and interventions will inevitably impact positively in the area of productivity on our local economy in Lagos and the Nigerian economy in general,” she said. “I reiterate that the LSETF Board of Trustees, in providing oversight for the Fund will ensure strict adherence to our obligations and ensure that we provide the governance and accountability required for the sustainability of the programme”, a member of the LSETF BoT told The Nation. Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Wealth Creation and Employment, Mrs. Boladele Dapo- Thomas thanked the Lagos State government, the Ministry of Wealth Creation, the leadership of Lagos State Employment Summit and the Employability team for accepting the responsibility to tackle unemployment through a public-private partnership. “I thank the Lagos State government for accepting the responsibility of providing the matching funds for this programme. Five million dollars is a significant amount of money to commit to project that supports combating youth unemployment. I want to thank the Ministry of Wealth Creation and Employment for its support and oversight of the Fund. “Also, I salute the Employability Team at the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund, led by Seyi Ladejobi. The 11 awarded VTCs selected through a rigorous and diligent process include; Field of Skills and Dreams Academy, Intermarc Consulting, LoftyInc Allied Partners Limited, Decke Vocational Academy Limited, HoneyTreat Trade Academy, Mods Salon/Body Refinement Limited, House of Tara International, Universal Learn Direct Academy (UDLA), AGDC Employability and Enterprise Limited, OSC College of Fashion, and Jenniez School of African Interior Design. Field of Skills and Dreams VTE Academy is a people-oriented initiative providing practical, vocational and entrepreneurship training to thousands of Nigerians to ensure their economic empowerment through hands-on training programmes. Courses under FSD include Domestic installations and Maintenance courses, Carpentry and Joinery, Textile and Fashion design and Hotel and Catering management, among others. Intermac Consulting Limited is a financially inclusive ecosystem that promotes all the universal Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs); providing tailor-made technical assistance to strengthen the stability of the financial system. LoftyInc Allied Partners Limited is an enterprise development company that develops start-up teams, manages innovation programmes and facilitates impact projects in West Central Africa. LoftyInc’s work cuts across infrastructure, energy and social impact sectors (education, health care and agriculture). Decke Academy is an organisation that provides excellent services to trainees and trainers, employers and employees, and offers corporate SME training to government and private sectors across an array of departments to meet the needs of today’s workplace. Courses offered include 2D and 3D design, Masonry, Photography, Interior Decoration, Maternal and Child Health, among others. Honeytreat Trade Academy is a private vocational training institute in construction trade. It helps the youth, existing construction trade workers and artisans acquire perfect skills, competence, and certification in their various trades for better economic benefit. House of Tara is a pioneer in the beauty and makeup industry in Nigeria and Africa as a whole and a trailblazer in the areas of retail, distribution channel management and education. Mods Salon/Body Refinement Limited is a natural hair and skin-care treatment centre, with a specialty in treatment and styling of natural hair. Universal Learn Direct Academia is a foremost building and construction trade institute providing courses which include masonry, construction, carpentry, domestic plumbing, domestic electrical, steel fixing and site supervision. AGDC Employability and Enterprise Limited is a social enterprise set up as a Career Centre to create opportunities that give people access to a continuum of programmes and services designed to develop their competencies, employment skills and career awareness. OSC College of Fashion is a fashion training school in Lagos, teaching pattern drafting, garment construction and sewing skills with international affiliations with globally recognised fashion schools. Jenniez School of African Interior Design (JSAID) offers a unique and creative approach to design while incorporating conceptualisation, practical and business skills required to work in any interior design or decoration business. LSETF, which was set up by the Lagos State Government in March, 2016, is mandated to tackle unemployment and promote job creation, entrepreneurship and skills development. To achieve its mandate, the Fund developed three core programmes as follows: The Loan Programme which provides access to affordable funding for micro, small and medium-scale entrepreneurs. The loans programme does not require collateral from applicants. LSETF has already disbursed about N7.30 billion to 11,249 beneficiaries, who have, in turn, created nearly 100,000 jobs in their businesses as at December, 2019. The Fund also partnered Access Bank PLC to launch LSETF-W-Initiative, a N10 billion fund dedicated to women-led enterprises. Employability Programme was designed to provide young people with competitive skills through training and employment opportunity for trainees through partnerships with prospective employers. The LSETF partners the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) to create 5,463 jobs out of which 2,689 have been successfully placed in jobs or self-employed. Lagos Innovates was set up to provide a digital-enabled environment, infrastructure, funding and mentorship support to founders and start-ups, thereby sustaining Lagos’ status as Africa’s most vibrant tech hub. As part of this programme, the Fund has given out 127 workspace vouchers to start-ups and a loan to a Hub Operator as support to promote innovation and entrepreneurship in the tech ecosystem. All these activities are targeted at Lagos residents irrespective of gender, religion or ethnicity with a commitment to ensure at least 50 per cent of the beneficiaries are women.