Our Reporter  A youth advocacy group in Enugu State, Coal City Youths Development Initiative (CCYDI), yesterday, honoured Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi with an award of Leadership Excellence. The award was presented to Ugwuanyi, at the group’s Town Hall Meeting on Governance in Enugu State, at Villa Toscana Hotel, Independence Layout, Enugu. It was received on his behalf by the Commissioner for Information, Nnanyelugo Chidi Aroh. Speaking at the event, the group’s Director-General, Johnpaul Anih, said the excellence award was in recognition of the governor’s “outstanding achievements in your service to humanity.” Anih, who disclosed that the meeting was an opportunity for youths of the state to brainstorm and make contributions towards advancing good governance in the state, noted that “the governor has been trying his best, given the availability of resources, to put up some good infrastructural development across the state.” The Director-General added that the group appreciated Ugwuanyi for appointing youths into sensitive positions such as chairmen of transition committees in some local government areas, as well as his uncommon leadership style. He stated, “We are not fighting Governor Ugwuanyi-led administration, neither are we fighting the leaders of this state.” He stressed that the youth body is actively seeking partnership with the government for better results. He explained that the “Coal City Youths Development Initiative is ardently and unequivocally committed to pushing for development and putting a call on accountability, open budgeting, public participation in governance, projects evaluation cum monitoring.” Commenting on the forthcoming local government elections in the state, Anih wished all members of the group who are contesting elections in their various political parties, success, and called on the Enugu State Independent Electoral Commission (ENSIEC) to conduct fair, credible and rancour-free exercise.  “We reiterate our resolve to support the good intentions of the present administration under Governor Ugwuanyi. As we extend our hands of partnership to the state government under our dynamic governor, we urge the present administration to redouble her efforts in infrastructural development”, the group leader said. In his response, Ugwuanyi, who spoke through his Commissioner for Information, thanked the youth for the honour done to him and reassured them of the firm commitment of the administration to do more and fully actualize its campaign promises to the people of the state. Award recipients at the event also included the member representing Udi/Ezeagu Federal Constituency, Dennis Oguerinwa Amadi, Special Adviser to the President on Justice Sector Reform and International Relations, Mrs. Juliet C. Ibekaku-Nwagwu and  the member representing Ezeagu Constituency in the State House of Assembly,  Chima Obieze. Others included Prince Lawrence Eze (Prince of Mbulumbu Kingdom), State Chairman of United Progressives Party (UPP), Mr. Ken Onyekaonwu, State Chairman of African People’s Alliance (APA), Chinonso Daniel Ogbe,  Chinedu Onyeagba (OMEX GLOBAL).