 HENCEFORTH, district prosecutors are to be deployed in magistrates’ courts to review case files before prosecution, Lagos State Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice Moyosore Onigbanjo (SAN) has said. He said the pilot scheme would involve the deployment of district prosecutors in Ogba, Ebute-Metta and Ikorodu magistrates’ courts to vet police charges before trial. It is to determine whether they are criminal or civil cases. Onigbanjo said that under the Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration, residents would no longer face unnecessary charges and detention. He said the development would ensure an effective administration of criminal justice system. The decision topped the 11-point recommendation made to the state government by an Advisory Committee inaugurated on January 8. It was asked to look into “the role of non-lawyer police prosecutors in the criminal justice system of Lagos State and determine whether their involvement in the process aligns with the law and the Attorney-General’s prosecutorial policy, and whether their activities in the process serve the public interest.” The committee, which had a former Solicitor-General and Permanent Secretary in Lagos State, Mr. Fola Author-Worrey, as chairman, submitted its report on February 12. “We accept the recommendation of the committee to put in a filter mechanism. “With immediate effect, we shall begin deployment of district prosecutors in three pilot magisterial districts, namely Ebute-Metta, Ikorodu and Ogba, to vet charges and review case files presented by the investigating police officers and ensure it meets evidential threshold required by law.” The Attorney-General said that the process of reducing judicial powers of the police would, however, involve a gradual phase out of lay police prosecutors from prosecution of criminal cases in the magistrates’ courts to prevent gridlock and virtual breakdown of criminal justice system. He said they are already at an advanced stage in amending the Administration of Criminal Justice Law (ACJL) of the state and ensuring provisions recommended for amendments by the committee to accommodate new developments in the criminal justice system are incorporated within a month. He said the bill would be presented before the executive council for consideration and approval.