On the back of far-reaching reforms and programmes by the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led administration, Edo State has been ranked second highest in developmental strides among states controlled by the All Progressives Congress (APC) by the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF)’s peer-review mechanism. In a report by the Director-General of the PGF, Salihu Moh Lukman, the forum revealed that Edo State was on a steady progression with 12 developmental initiatives for the month of January, spreading across health, education, infrastructure, economy, agriculture, sports, justice and sensitization. The report titled, “January 2020 Progressives Strides – Tracking Development Initiatives in APC States”, represented the performance of all states in terms of development. According to the forum, “The entries for this edition witnessed more improvement as regards developmental strides collated from the Forum States. The information collated was readily available on public platforms and same reported to the Secretariat. “In general, there is an all-round increase in the pattern of initiatives introduced by the states with Gombe State recording the most initiatives of this month with sixteen (16) strides, spreading across health, education, infrastructure, economy, agriculture, sports and justice and sensitization. “Edo follows with 12 strides and Kaduna follows with 11. Borno and Kwara record 10 strides each followed by Kano and Katsina with 9 each. Lagos and Osun get 8 strides each; Ekiti, Kebbi and Yobe follow with 7 each. Niger records 6 strides while Ondo follows with 5, and lastly Jigawa, Kogi, Nasarawa and Plateau States get 3 strides each.” It noted, “The overall characteristics of this edition showed that all states in the Forum were represented and featured in this edition. Thirty (30) per cent of information attributed to primary sources and 70 per cent from secondary sources. “We hope to further engage state officials so as to improve on receiving information directly, as the secretariat is utilising all channels for publicising these in addition to those used by the states for a wider reach.”