 All Progressives Congress (APC) on Sunday said it has uncovered plan by the Bayelsa state deputy governor, Senator Lawrence Oborawharievwo Ewhrudjakpo and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to swap an allegedly forged National Youth Service Corp (NYSC) certificate the deputy governor presented for elections. The Deputy National Publicity Secretary of APC, Mr. Yekini Nabena, who made the allegation in a statement in Abuja said the ruling party has uncovered plot by Ewhrudjakpo and his party (PDP) to swap the alleged forged NYSC Certificate presented to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for the Senate and deputy governorship positions. Nabena stated that unknown to PDP and Bayelsa deputy governor, his party -APC have already obtained the certified true copies of the allegedly forged NYSC certificates and warned staff of both INEC and NYSC to be cautious and not fall to pressure or move by the deputy governor and PDP. According to the Bayelsa-born APC chieftain said, “Information reaching us is that agents of the Deputy Governor of Bayelsa State, Senator Lawrence Oborawharievwo Ewhrudjakpo have approached officials of INEC and NYSC with bribe offers to swap the allegedly forged NYSC certificates he presented to INEC for the Senate and Deputy Governor positions. “We have already obtained the certified true copies of the allegedly forged NYSC certificates the Bayelsa Deputy Governor presented to INEC. I hereby call on the leadership of INEC to thread cautiously by resisting the pressure and rejecting the bribes of the Bayelsa Deputy Governor to swap the NYSC certificates”. Nabena said the national leadership of the APC was committed to pursuing all legal avenues to contest the INEC decision to declare Douye Diri as the Bayelsa state governor, having failed to meet the mandatory constitutional requirement to become the governor. “The national leadership of APC has approached the Supreme Court seeking a review of its ruling on the Bayelsa Governorship Election. The general public is already aware of the forgery case involving Bayelsa deputy governor, Senator Lawrence Oborawharievwo Ewhrudjakpo,” Nabena stated. It will be recalled that an Abuja Area Court, on Wednesday, ordered the Department of State Security (DSS) to investigate the NYSC Certificate forgery allegation against the Bayelsa Deputy Governor. Until his swearing-in on February 14, 2020, as deputy governor, Ewhrudjakpo of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was the senator representing Bayelsa West Senatorial District.