Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has said that it is probing alleged diversion of over three billion naira by the past administration in Kwara State. Speaking in Ilorin,  Kwara State capital, yesterday, during a walk tagged: ‘Nigerian youth walk against corruption protest,’ organized by the anti-graft agency in collaboration with the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), organized labour, civil society organizations, and others,  Ilorin Zonal Head of EFCC, Isyaku Sharu, said the money was meant for the operation light-up Kwara project under the administration of Governor AbdulFatah Ahmed, adding that “part of the diverted fund was used to buy a property in Guzape area of Abuja.” The state governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq took part in the anti-corruption work which lasted for more than two hours in Ilorin metropolis. He revealed that the zone had in its one year of operation made 48 convictions and recovered both in cash and assets that worth N8.5 billion, adding that substantial part of this recovery was for the Kwara state government. “You will recall that during the last international anti-corruption Day Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq commended the EFCC for assisting the state government in recovering N4.8 billion tax refund at the eve of the last handing/taking over. The fund was part of 2020 budget. “It is on record that we also handed over N111 million to the governor and as it is, we have about N200 million for the state government ready for collection.” State NYSC Director Esther Ikupolati said that over 2000 corps members participated in  walk against corruption.  “If 200 of them pick the crusade, they will spread the gospel to others. “My charge to the youth (NYSC) is for them to shun corruption. Corruption is the root of all the problems in this country. Insecurity, kidnapping name it, all have their roots in corruption. If they can shun corruption and we start to talk to them now about the evil of corruption they will not go into it again. This informed the collaboration of the service and the EFCC to organize the rally against corruption nationwide.”