 Military top brass including serving and retired service chiefs on Wednesday converged on the parade ground, Naval Training Command (NAVTRAC) Apapa to pay last respects to the remains of former Chief of the Naval Staff (CNS) Vice Admiral Patrick Koshoni. Admiral Koshoni, 77, who passed on after a brief illness on January 25, was laid-in-state at the naval formation in line with military tradition. The solemn event which lasted about 45 minutes, commenced with a parade and procession that ushered in the white hearse conveying the deceased senior officer. As the body was lowered on the parade ground, the Chief of the Naval Staff (CNS) Vice Admiral Ibok-Ete Ibas, his predecessors Usman Jibrin, Ola Sa’ad Ibrahim, Ishaya Ibrahim and Jubril Ayinla and all other officers present at the gathering all saluted as a mark of respect to the deceased. A short hymn and prayer for the repose of his soul were sang as the deceased, clad in his Nigerian Navy ceremonial uniform and housed in a white casket was carried into a tent decorated with wreaths where he was laid-in-state. Although the event was devoid of speeches, some retired officers who spoke to The Nation on the sides eulogised the deceased, describing him as a very professional and detribalised officer. Rear Admiral Kehinde Komolafe who was Aide-De-Camp (ADC) to Koshoni said the deceased was a peaceful man. “There was peace all around and in him. I cannot really tell how he did it. But he was a man of peace and his type of leadership was simple and peaceful. “That was how he conducted himself throughout. There are a lot of lessons in his life for younger officers. He was very professional, he knew the job he was doing. He knew his responsibility and he went after them. “He was committed to his job and had no ulterior motive. He was just committed to ensure the service was on the right track.” Similarly, Navy Captain Ayo Adekoya (rtd) said Koshoni was a prolific writer and a man gifted with oration. “He was a worthy example in all standards. He has left his footprint on  the sands of time that cannot be erased. The most important thing was that he was absolutely and completely a detribalised Nigerian.”