Finchglow Travels, a  Travel Management Company (TMC), last week   held a training programme for its trade partners in Abuja. The objective of the programme according to the firm bordered on the need to upgrade the capacity needs on the operations of travel agencies in the country. The programme with theme : “Collaboration to Achieving Results”, came at a time when  technology is predicted to take over businesses in the coming years. Its organizers said the essence of the training was to educate trade partners on the latest trends and technologies in the business, as well as how to maximize these opportunities into profitability. Mr. Ezekiel Ikotun, the Group Chief Operating Officer, Finchglow Travels (GCOO) in his opening remark said : “Finchglow Travels has been in existence since 2006, we have seen the ups and downs of this business without forgetting the days of Billing Settlement Plan (BSP), yet we are thankful that we are here today. We understand that it takes courage to remain in this business starting from the operating environment to many other areas which has unfortunately led to the extinction of many renowned travel agencies.” “Based on this reason, at Finchglow Travels we decided to show our trade partners what we know. The purpose for organizing today’s trade partners’ forum is to foster business sustainability for our trade partners.  We recognize your influence in our businesses and we can’t deny that your efforts have been remarkable. We want this to continue; hence we set up this forum to educate you,” he added. While delivering a lecture on the latest trends in the industry, Mr. Ikotun spoke of the New Distribution Capability (NDC), a travel industry-supported program launched by International Air Transport Association (IATA) for the development and market adoption of a new, XML-based data transmission standard (NDC Standard). He urged agencies to embrace it the moment the NDC is activated in Nigeria as it will enhance communications between airlines and travel agents. Remarkably, Mr. Ikotun also announced the launch of Finch Trade PartnerPlus, a platform that allows the trade partners to be able to enjoy feature-rich tailored travel products and services to help trade partners enhance existing product and service portfolio and achieve incremental growth. Speaking of the benefits, he said : “Finchglow Travels Trade PartnerPlus offers generous POS commission, comprehensive product training, sales & technical support. The benefits are: Ticket Quotes and Sales Support, Technical Support, Promotions and Giveaways, Product Discounts, FamTrip, Issuing Right/RTS and a lot more.” To commemorate with Finchglow Travels and to as well help in educating travel agents on latest technologies, fare rules and packages, the event had representatives from Amadeus; one of the major Global Distribution System (GDS) service providers. Also in attendance were representatives from RwandAir, Ethiopian Airlines and Emirates who supported the event with giveaways like laptops, tickets and monetary rewards.