From KOLADE ADEYEMI, Kano.  Two recently, promoted Assistants lnspector General of Police,(AIGs), Ahmed illiyasu and Rabiu Yusuf, has described the Kano state Governor, Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje as an architect of modern community policing that placed the as the most peaceful in the country. The two AIGs, who expressed delight over the feat, noted that this was made possible, due to the unrelenting commitment of Governor Ganduje in security of the state, through the genuine application of modern strategies in terms of intelligence gathering and use of Information Technology (IT), They unanimously posited that, “In the face of recent and lingering security challenges being faced across some states in the federation, including states that are neighbours of Kano, governor Ganduje finds it extremely important and necessary to come up with an effective and efficient security architecture that fruited into the peace the state is enjoying today. His is superb. Other states need to copy from Kano state. They made the commendation at a Send Forth Dinner organised by Citizens Forum in collaboration with the Kano state government and Police Community Relations Committee (PCRC), held at Meena Events Centre, Ahmadu Bello Way, Kano, that attracted many security agencies and politicians with different political party affliations. AIG Iliyasu, who head Zone ll, of Lagos and Ogun states, said, “Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje has the concern for national security in his heart. This, I can say anywhere without fear of mincing words. The security architecture he created is superb. That is why Kano is most peaceful state in the country.” Adding that, “Your unprecedented effort in the security of your people is encouraging and superb also. People of Kano state recognize the importance of national security. I therefore feel honoured to be associated with the people of Kano state.” Explaining further that, governor Ganduje is a good man who has the people of his state at heart. Saying that he (Ganduje) has open door policy, who is accessible, insisting further that, “With the new security structures in place by Governor Ganduje, the security of policing is becoming closer to the people, with their good cooperation.” While AIG Yusuf believes that the governor has passion for security, he argues that, “Ganduje is the most peaceful governor in the country.  You can all believe with me if I briefed you about the good work this gentleman did to the Nigeria Police Force. And I am sure he will continue doing that.” “During my stay in Kano Command as Commissioner of Police and after, His Excellency governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje constructed and helped in the rehabilitation of many Police Divisional stations. Not only that, he also constructed Zonal offices, among many other feats he achieved,” Yusuf said. In his remarks Governor Ganduje said “Kano state has a solid foundation for the security architecture in the state. I am favourably citing the promoted AIGs for being the foundation upon which our strength in the security system depends. These gentlemen are indeed the foundation of our security architecture.” He said “We have a well coordinated and well blended security networking in the state security system. I want assure all that there is good synergy among all our security agencies. Ours is to create enabling environment. We liaise with all the security agencies in the state. We meet frequently with all the security agencies. We exchange ideas. Then we employ the services of Information Technology (IT).” He revealed that the State Command and Control Centre in the state, was mooted out during the time of AIG Rabi’u when he was the Commissioner of Police in the state, adding that, “with this Centre we are able to communicate with all security agencies in the state and beyond.” “The popular Falgore forest that was known for all criminalities, has now become Army Training ground. I requested from the President that we were ready to give the forest for Military training. Of which he graciously accepted. As I speak to you now, we have put some structures there and the issue of armed robbery, cattle rustling and other forms of criminality are history. With our Control Centre cited at the Police Headquarters here in Kano, Falgore forest can be zoomed from there,” Ganduje said. He argued that, he introduced the RUGA settlement at Dan Soshiya forest to squarely address the issue of farmers/herders clashes, cattle rustling among others, disclosing that, “In order to tackle security very well, we give preference to community policing. That is why we are organising a Summit for community policing very soon.” He added that, all the feats achieved in the security of the state, was not by accident, but by design, planning and committed resources. In his remarks the Emir of Bichi, Aminu Ado Bayero, after commending the state government for being serious about the security of the state, he called on people to always cooperate with the security agencies in taming all types of crime and criminality in the state state and beyond.