 OSUN State Governor Gboyega Oyetola has said he is paying workers full salary because of his prudent management of resources. He spoke yesterday at an interactive Civic Engagement Programme tagged “Apero”. It was organised by the Ministry of Information and Civic Orientation in Ikirun. The governor, who noted that the welfare of the workers would remain his priority, said he only spent money on most important matters. He said: “I will continue to pay full salary of workers and God will continue to help us. How we are managing to use the little resources accruing to the state to achieve a lot is not by magic. But we rather manage what comes in by not engaging in wasteful spending.” Speaking on the recommendations of the Education Panel Review Committee, which he recently inaugurated and which is recommending reversal of education system in the state from 4-5-3-4 to 6-3-3-4, the governor said that the Executive Council will study the recommendations of the committee, which has recommended a reversal of the education system from 4-5-3-4 to  6-3-3-4 and will take a decision on it. On agriculture,  Oyetola said that the  government  had been assisting farmers with fertilisers, seedlings and grading of farm roads for accessibility. Health Commissioner Dr. Rafiu Isamotu, who made a presentation on the achievements of his ministry, disclosed that the governor had approved N400 million for the take-off of Osun Health Insurance Scheme. He said the government had embarked on renovation and supply of equipment and drugs to primary health care centres across the state.  Commissioner for Education Mr. Folorunsho Adedoyin said that the government was planning to recruit 2,000 teachers into public schools. He said the government would soon embark on training and retraining of teachers to enhance quality education. Works and Transport Commissioner Remi Owowaye said that the government had started a massive road rehabilitation and building. Omowaye, an engineer, said the government had earmarked N5.2 billion for the reconstruction of 54.3 kilometres of roads in the three senatorial districts. The Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, Mrs. Funke Egbemode, said that the programme was organised to enable the people interact with the government. She noted that the interaction would afford the people the opportunity to tell the government about its activities and for the government to showcase its achievements in all sectors of the economy. The event was attended by personalities like Deputy Governor Mr. Gboyega Alabi with members of the Executive Council, including the Chief of Staff to the Governor, Dr. Charles Diji Akinola, the wife of the governor,  Mrs. Kafayat Oyetola, the Speaker, Osun State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Timothy Owoeye, with members of the House, the Chairman of the All Progressives Congress in the state, Prince Gboyega Famodun, former commissioners for Information Sunday Akere and Lani Baderinwa. Others were monarchs in Ifelodun, Odo-Otin federal constituency like the Aragbiji of Iragbiji, the Olororuwo of Ororuwo, the Olokuku of Okuku, the Oloyan of Oyan, the Akirun of Ikirun and Alada of Ada.  