By Adeola Ogunlade YOUNG animation artists have called on the federal government and industry players to put more fund to support creative youths in the animation sector. This was the focus of a one-day Quadron Animation Studio Symposium held recently at the NG Hub, Yaba, Lagos. The event brought together creative artists, entrepreneurs, graphics design, and movie producers. Speaking at the event, the Technical Director of Orange VXX Studio, Richard Oboh, said that the animation industry has the potentials to employ 10000 youths in the next five years in Nigeria because of the growing potentials in the industry world over. He posited that many Western countries are outsourcing huge animation jobs to Nigerians but a lot of training for young animation artists and support system is needed to maximize those emerging opportunities. He asserted that one of the Box Office film in 2019 that earned about $300milion Avenger was done through animation, adding that the potential in the industry is huge and Nigeria should play actively in the sector. Oboh noted that investment is needed in training, infrastructure, marketing, logistics, and other areas that are of immerse important to the animation and creative sector.  He stated further that there is still a lot of misconception, misinformation and myth around the industry and we need a lot of outreaches where we give a broad overview of the industry and the opportunity its offers. The technical Director of Quadron studio, Uche Anisuiba advised young creatives who intends to make it big in the animation industry to go for training in a reputable animation studio as the sector in dire need of skilled hands. He said that to produce an animation movie, you need a producer, rector, history artist, concept artist, 3D muler, modeling, textual artist, artists, voice actors, studio, effect artist, exposure and composition. Anisuiba posited that the tools needed in animation production are similar and the procedures are the same, adding that you need to be self-motivated, learn quickly and study a lot of thing around and be ready to learn from other people.