As political activities in Ondo State gather momentum preparatory for the governorship election the political analysts have pontificated that the next few months would be characterised by deft political manouverings and manipulations. It is believed that the contest will be a straight fight between the ruling party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the major opposition, Peoples Democractic Party (PDP).  Expectedly, both parties are witnessing a surge in political activities and the number of aspirants appear to be on the increase as the state approaches the defining moment. Except for the crisis within the APC, it is believed in many quarters that the governor should have a smooth sail to clinching his second term ticket. But this appears an uphill task at the moment, thereby creating sleepless and worrisome nights in the Rotimi Akeredolu camp. The governor hails from Owo in the North Senatorial District of while his local government incidentally has the largest number of voters in the district. Interestingly, Chief Bukola Adetula, who also hails from Owo has thrown his hat into the ring by showing a very strong interest in Akeredolu’s job and he seems to have arrested the attention of APC leaders across the 18 local government areas. In 2016, both Akeredolu and Adetula participated in the exercise that led to the former’s emergence as governor. however, three lines of convergence have been identified between the duo, which are narrowed to their being from the same Owo Kingdom; both are lawyers and are in the same party, APC. A further dig into the background of Adetula reveals a successful business man, who sits on the boards of a handful of international and domestic companies in the Oil and Gas, media and training. He attended the prestigious Government College, Ibadan and thereafter travelled to the United States of America from where he received  B.Sc. (Criminal Justice); B.A. and M.A. (Political Science) and a Juris Doctor (J.D)  in Law, degrees. Despite being an experienced Criminal Defence Counsel with decades of professorial track records of many high profile feats across the United States, he returned home over a decade ago to be actively involved in the trade that gave fame to his father and has amplified his name beyond the borders of Ondo State. He is married to Dr.(Mrs.) Christiana Adetula (Nee Obebe) of Ipoti Ekiti, a medical practitioner who specialises in the treatment of neck and back injuries, and their union is blessed with children. He is indeed a chip of the old block, as his late father, Chief ZOK Adetula, popularly known as ZOKA was one of the foremost political leaders of the progressive family in Ondo State. He was a contemporary of Pa Adekunle Ajasin and a protege of the late sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo.  ZOKA represented Owo constituency at the Federal House of Representatives between 1979 and 1983. Again, just as in 2016, Adetula is aspiring for the highest political office in Ondo State. A man popularly described by his political admirers as ‘The Credible Alternative’. His ambition is creating a frenzy of excitement at the grassroot level where he is being commonly described d as ‘the hope” of the people of Ondo State. As the political cloud in Ondo State daily thickens, Adetula stands tall among the frontline aspirants in the APC with a strong affiliation to the Unity Forum, under the leadership of Alhaji Ali Olanusi, a former deputy governor and serving Board of Trustees member of the APC. Recently, he declared his aspiration during a media parley with gentlemen of the press and on the floor of the Unity Forum during the group’s last meeting. The major agenda of his aspiration are industrialisation as well as the resuscitation of the educational system. He believes that the state is more endowed with natural resources than Lagos State and has the capacity of becoming an industrial and commercial hub, given the right leadership. His popularity is not in doubt. He passionate about alleviating the hardship that is endemic among his people. In his trademark gentlemanly smile, he would simply say if asked, “it’s all about a yearning by the people for respect, humility and true leadership as against rulership.” With some months away to deciding who becomes the next governor of Ondo State, Adetula’s actions and utterances potray a visionary man who is determined on his mission to give Akeredolu a run for his money. Without a doubt, amongst all the aspirants, he is certainly the man to watch out for. 