An Ogba Magistrate Court, Lagos has ordered a housewife, Mrs Esther Ijeoma Amechi to ensure that her house help, Mrs Joy Kanu, who sustained several injuries at her hands, is adequately treated and rehabilitated before the case filed against her can be heard. Magistrate  Mr. O. D. Njoku issued the “binding order” on Mrs Amechi  after taking arguments from counsels and the complainant, the International Charitable Initiative for Girl Child and Women Development Foundation (ICI-GWODEF). Kanu, 43, a mother of nine, is believed to be mentally unstable. Magistrate Njoku ordered the defendant to attend to Kanu’s  broken limbs and head-wounds as well as other injuries the house help suffered at the hands of Amechi. The magistrate ordered that the treatment be carried out in the hospital for the next three months after which the court will determine whether or not to strike out the charges against her. The decision of the court followed the submission of counsel to ICI-GWODEF, Mrs Juliet Nwadinma-Ohanyiri yesterday that the NGO was not party to any out-of-court settlement. “My Lord, members of our NGO rescued the woman and took her to Ojo police station where we filed a complaint and later to the police. We took her to hospital, paid her bills, clothed and fed her,” she told the court. Defence counsel, O.M. Okorie had told the court that his client, Mrs Amechi and the victim had discussed and agreed on settlement outside the court. Ruling on the matter, Magistrate Njoku said, “ I cannot close my eyes to the welfare of the victim…I must ensure the victim is well taken care of.” Magistrate Njoku wondered why the defence was in a hurry to withdraw the charge without first considering the welfare of the victim. “For there to be settlement, there must first be an improvement in the health and welfare of the victim,” he said and warned the defence counsel not to put the court in a situation where it would foreclose settlement. “We cannot close our eyes to what is happening now. What happens if the charge is withdrawn and the victim is abandoned. Any failure to treat the victim will foreclose settlement.” He ordered the prosecutor to monitor the treatment of the victim in the hospital until the next adjourned date fixed for May 20.