The Rector of the Gateway (ICT) Polytechnic, Saapade, Ogun State, Kolawole Oyeyinka, on Thursday warned the students of the institution to shun cultism and conducts capable of tarnishing the image of the school or be ready “to graduate prematurely.” Oyeyinka said great sacrifice had been made by the management to keep the institution in its height in accordance with the global standard, warning that the institution would not condone any student or things on or off campus that is capable of undermining its good name or academic calendar. The Rector, who issued the warning while addressing the new intakes of the polytechnic at its 14th matriculation ceremony, declared that the school has zero tolerance for cultism and misconduct. “The polytechnic will not hesitate to expel any student who embarks on cultism or any other act that can tarnish the beautiful image of our institution,” he said. He charged the students to abide by the rules and regulations of the school, and face their academic pursuit with all the seriousness it deserves as the environment is conducive for them to attain their best, recalling that the institution has been rated 2nd best polytechnic in Ogun State and one of the best in Nigeria. “The school had embarked on the construction of another 1,200 capacity auditorium, the Centre for Entrepreneurship Development and Skill Acquisition. “When the Centre is completed, it will seek to train about a thousand students per academic session, ranging from skill acquisition, auto mechanic, building service, block making, block laying masonry and pipe laying among other skills. “We have established the Internal Quality Assurance unit. This is to ensure quality pedagogical deliveries ranging from lecture monitoring, exam and quality assurance, curriculum coverage, quality result processing and so on. Also, Environment Corps (E-Corps) to see to the disciplined use of our facilities and environment,” Oyeyinka added. Governor Dapo Abiodun who was represented by his Special Adviser on Students Affairs, Adeyemi Azeez, advised the new intakes to face their studies with all seriousness to prove themselves worthy in learning and character at the end of their studentship. Abiodun also advised parents and guardians not to totally leave the task of moulding quality character into their wards to the school handle alone, saying they should also cultivate the habit of paying them unscheduled visitations to ascertain how they are faring in interpersonal relationship and academic life. The Governor noted that his administration would continue to accord tertiary education and students’ necessary support but warned that it would condone acts capable of disrupting the smooth running of the school. In his remarks, the State Commissioner Education for Education, Science and Technology, Prof. Sidi Osho, who was represented at the ceremony by the Director of Tertiary Education in the ministry, Olanrewaju Erinle, charged the new students to be diligent in their studies and be good ambassadors of the polytechnic.