Youths in the globe have expressed dismay for being blamed continuously for road crashes. At the 2nd World Youth Assembly for Road Safety in Stockholm in Sweden as part of activities proceeding the 3rd Global Ministerial Conference on Road Safety, the youths decried being born into a global crisis where road traffic crashes have been pegged to be the biggest killer of young people ages 15 to 29 years. They declared that they would no longer tolerate their friends and mates dying and getting injured on the world’s road. The youths, who represented 74 countries, called for immediate action on Road Safety from leaders and international communities. In Africa, the youths said they are forced to deal with badly designed infrastructure which leads pedestrians to jaywalk and vehicles to get involved in serious crashes. The African youths explained that a lack of basic education and awareness about road safety causes people in the region to drive without proper training. Speaking at the World Youth Assembly on Road Safety, the Executive Director of Greenlight Initiative, Simon Patrick Obi, who spoke on behalf of the youths in Nigeria, lamented despite the fact that road traffic deaths have remained the leading cause of violent deaths ahead of the world’s most deadly terrorist group Boko-Haram, it is still being ignored by the government. “It is no longer news that Road Safety is the most ignored subject in our society today. How do you explain a thing, that kills more than 1.35 million people mostly youths annually and yet hardly makes the news headlines? “1.35 million figure is more than the population of so many countries of the world, please take a moment and imagine a country losing its entire citizen within a year? “In countries like Nigeria where I came from, road traffic deaths have remained the leading means of violence deaths ahead of the world’s most deadly terrorist group Boko-Haram yet issues of road safety are never taken seriously.” Commending Nigeria’s Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), he said that the agency has been doing its best in trying to reduce road crashes but is being limited by resources. He called for lead agencies across Africa to take charge of road safety issues in order to reduce the fatality indices. “Nigeria has a lead agency called the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) but the situation is not the same across other Africa countries. “Countries like Cameron has more than 30.1 percent deaths per 100, 000 population yet they do not have lead agencies, we must push to have lead agency in all countries, that in itself is the first step towards ensuring road safety. ” Youths from the Americas were not left out as they berated the poor public services saying that many victims would have been saved if post-crash services were more efficient and adequate facilities existed. The youths of South-East Asia and of the Western Pacific expressed dismay over how corruption has continually led to poor regulation and enforcement of road safety laws. They said that in a bid for drivers to earn more, there are usually overcrowded and speeding public vehicles while a lot of people do not wear helmets on motorcycles. The youth of Europe stressed for better infrastructure for cyclists and pedestrians lamenting over the continuous use of mobile phone use behind the wheel which has become problematic for all road users. Presenting the Global Youth Statement for Road Safety endorsed by the youths to delegates at the 3rd Global Ministerial Conference on Road Safety, the Co-Chair of the 2nd World Youth Assembly for Road Safety, Omnia El Omani said that the challenges of road safety affects all the youths in matter the region they come from saying, “We all experience unsafe roads every day in our various regions and continents.” She said that the youths have declared their distrust over the ability of decision-makers to make the right decision, “Therefore, we are claiming our space at the decision-making table.” Stating the demands of the youths, Omani stated that the youths want the government to stop blaming them and start engaging them. “It is time to change your perception of youth. No more manipulation, decoration or participation for show. We want our needs, ideas, skills, and opinions taken into account. “We demand roads that do not kill our dreams, prove took for vulnerable users, children, and youths on their way to get an education. Stop funding and building anything less than 3-star roads. “We need established and enforced safe spree limits appropriate to the function and location of the road by transport authorities and police. “We need safe and sustainable transport systems to combat the climate crisis and good helmet and seatbelt laws that protect children in the back seat and zero tolerance for drugs, alcohol, and distractions. We need the political will to enforce these laws. “It is time to change your perception of youth. No more manipulation, decoration or participation for show. We need our needs, ideas, skills, and opinions taken into account.” The Co-Chair then announced the launching of a Global Youth Coalition for Road Safety to ensure youths are part of the road safety revolution in order to enact the demands of the youths and commitments of the leaders. She ended with this charge to the global leaders, “It is time for real action, no more false promises or fake commitments. You have to pack a lane: will you work with us to save lives and create a healthier world? Or will you confess to your children in 2030 that you did nothing to stop this global road safety crisis.”