 I  used to think corruption was Nigeria’s biggest problem, but I’m starting to doubt that. Every time I probe into one of the many issues this country is encountering, at the core I find the same phenomenon: the widespread celebration of mediocrity. Unrebuked underachievement seems to be the rule in all facets of society. A governor building a single road during his entire tenure is revered like the next Messiah; an averagely talented author who writes a colourless book gets sponsored to represent Nigerian literature overseas; and a young woman with no secretarial skills to speak of gets promoted to the oga’s office faster than any of her properly trained colleagues.” The quote above is the introductory paragraph of an article written by a Dutch Journalist, Femke van Zeijl whom Nigerians in cyberspace later named ‘Funke’ because of her firm grasp of Nigerian issues. She started a blog that lasted almost a year chronicling her experiences in the country wondering why a nation so blessed has remained so docile without demanding for accountability and the need for things to be done properly. I must point out that she didn’t write what hasn’t been written by Nigerians over the years. The interest – I guess – is because she was able to hit the nail on the head being a foreigner. She did add – in the article – that corruption per se does not necessarily stand in the way of development. Otherwise a country like Indonesia – then number 118 on Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index not that far removed from Nigeria’s then 139 – would never have made it to the G-20 group of major economies. An even more serious obstacle to development is the lack of repercussions for underachievement. Who in Nigeria is ever held accountable for substandard performance? Not done, it took this foreign journalist just a short period to start wondering why we seem to wallow so much in mediocrity. “Nigeria,” she wrote “is the opposite of a meritocracy: you do not earn by achieving. You get to be whom and where you are by knowing the right people. Whether you work in an office, for an enterprise or an NGO, at a construction site or in government, your abilities hardly ever are the reason you got there. Performing well, let alone with excellence, is not a requirement, in fact, it is discouraged. It would be too threatening: showing you’re more intelligent, capable or competent than the ‘oga at the top’ (who, as a rule, is not an overachiever either) is career suicide.” If this article had been written by a Nigerian, people would want to know what part of the country he’s from, his political leaning, whether he’s a “hailer” or a “wailer” and other such appellations and labels. My focus today will be in the area of sport development. Nigeria won a bronze medal – yes a bronze medal – in the 2016 Rio Olympics in Brazil. Some insinuated that during Jonathan’s era the country did not win any medal during the 2012 London games, so the one bronze medal was a plus for the Buhari administration! It is appalling that we are a country that seems to detest excellence. Recall that the kits for Nigerian athletes that participated in the Olympics arrived Rio two days to the closing ceremony! More appalling is the fact that the incident passed with no one taking responsibility. That is why it is not uncommon to find Nigerians “congratulating” each other for such a woeful outing. Why can’t our policy makers for once sit down, reflect and make the necessary changes that need to be made by seeing sports development as part of overall economic development. In Singapore, the country gives any athlete that wins a gold medal over $300,000 reward. Where does this amount come from? We should do well to ask them and learn some new tricks. Without an iota of doubt, the potentials to achieve lofty heights in sports abound in Nigeria. From football, to boxing, weightlifting, athletics, volleyball, handball, badminton, lawn tennis, cycling, team sports and others, the country certainly does not lack in manpower, talents and potentials. A group of Nigerian women sponsored themselves to compete in Bobsleigh at the last summer Olympics without official support. By wearing Nigerian colours, they made us all proud. Painfully though, sports development in the country has yet to take the sector to the expected level.  Despite the fact that sports at the moment remain one of the true unifying force in Nigeria; the sector has continued to witness serious hiccups, especially, in areas of management and policy implementation. Why can’t our policy experts see that sports touch the hearts of millions of people? Sports promote national unity and image. Efficient sports system assist in nation building, wealth creation, employment generation, good health and social mobilisation. Until recently, sport is perhaps the only aspect in our lives where ethnicity or religion is not often an issue. Why are they not seeing this? I’m fully convinced that Sports development would contribute to the growth and development of the Nigerian economy. But how should we go about it? We won’t get it until conscious efforts are made to focus on school sports which are the basics for early talent discovery and weaning, otherwise the county would continue to lag behind. Also, sports academies under big sports institutions with clear cut policy on personnel, ‘catch-them-young’ approach and up to date data keeping and athlete monitoring would go a long way to taking the country steps closer to positive expectations. Even the blind can “see” that like other sectors, the sector has been poorly managed. It will not be out of place to advocate that people with expertise be allowed to manage sports in order to turn potentials into results. There is need to fully professionalise sports in Nigeria. People with expertise, both athletes and managers, should be allowed to come in and manage sports. The government in making sports policies should see the sector as a specialised field where only the experts should be engaged. What is more, sustained competitions at the grassroots level, especially, the primary and secondary schools would continue to throw up quality talents that would sustain the supply chain. There’s also the need for massive infrastructure upgrade. Kenya and Ethiopian know that their strength lies in athletics and they’ve developed these over the years. Kenya, for instance, has also made inroads into rugby development which was why the country participated in the sport at Rio. If we do not make deliberate and concerted efforts, sports development in the country would continue to go in circles unless the absence of an active base for sports development in educational institutions and the communities are addressed. We see this playing out almost daily in our most popular sport, football. Also, inadequate funding, non-functional database for planning and development, absence of deliberate policy on talent identification and development, inadequate corporate support and absence of legislative backing for the establishment of key sports institutions are clogs in wheel of progress as well as frequent changing of sports administrators and lack of both institutional and human capacity for sports development. The vast resources – human and material – available at the feet of the nation makes it is huge income earner waiting to be astutely tapped. Sports should be seen purely as business enterprise; so administrators should sit back, undertake real soul searching to see where they derailed. And for goodness sake, let it be taken away from unnecessary civil service bureaucracy. This is the singular reason the private sector shy away from Nigerian sports. We lack accountability and the private sector thrives on accountability and positive results always. When fundamental change occurs, the system cleared of filthiness that hinders progress, sponsors will rush to invest. But the multiple challenges of infrastructure provision and maintenance, official high handedness in management, policy implementation and most importantly, athletes’ morale, motivation and welfare must be addressed. Unless these are done, we will see winning a single bronze medal as “progress.”  