 A group, the Oodua People’s Congress New Era, has described as unfortunate, a statement credited to the leader of Arewa Youth Congress (AYC), Shetima Yerima, over the chances of the Yoruba in securing presidential ticket in 2023 because of the creation of Amotekun Security Outfit. Kwara State Coordinator of OPC New Era Bayo Fabiyi in a statement urged the Presidency to order the arrest of Yerima based on his inciting utterances. He reiterated the need for northern leaders who truly wanted the unity of the country “to call these youths to order to refrain from saying what can endanger the peace and unity of Nigeria.” Fabiyi said: “How can Yerima give an ultimatum and call for a war if he doesn’t have a secret agenda to destabilise the country under the guise of protesting against Amotekun? “If someone from another ethnic group makes such a statement, by now he would have been declared wanted, but Yerima’s threat is being treated with kid’s glove.” The OPC New Era national treasurer said: “In his early days in Lagos, we were together with Yerima as a young man. In the spirit of cooperation and togetherness, we brought Yerima close to us so that his people will not see us as enemies.  Then at Idi-Araba in Lagos, Yerima arranged dancers that entertained us during our meetings and also enjoyed our protection. We assisted him when he was forming his groups for political awareness and recognition and today, he is calling OPC names. He is such an ingrate. He will see what ingratitude does to people.” Fabiyi said that Amotekun is not a threat to national security, but an initiative of the Yoruba to secure themselves and residents in their areas. He added: “If the police and military had secured the country, Amotekun would not have come up.” Fabiyi said that the Yoruba would not leave their house open and endanger the lives of the people in their domain just because of presidential ambition. He asked: “Who would we lead if we become president and all the people under us have been killed by Boko Haram? The Yoruba are wiser; we will secure our home before vying for any office. Besides, is it Myeti Allah that doles out the presidential ticket? These people should stop escalating the crises in the country.”   