Nigerian Afro-Cyborg singer, Bright Ukpabi has moved a step further on his plans for lovers on St. Valentine’s Day after having released a new song “Keys to your Hearts” on Friday, February 7, 2020. The singer, in a chat with our reporter said he would be sponsoring lovers who are a bit short of money to celebrate each other. Although, he didn’t particularly mention numbers of lovers but he said it could anything from 10 lovers to as many as his heart could take. He also added that it is for lovers who have stayed together for more than two years to five years or more. “St. Valentine’s Day is something Nigerians should celebrate. For me to celebrate people who are celebrating their love life I put out a challenge, saying share your love life with me, I want to identify with you on Valentine’s Day. I want to support you to spoil your woman or your man. Although I’m not sure how many people I will be hosting that day, it may be 10 or 20 people. The way I feel my heart is big I can host 1 million people. I love to see people celebrate love. Eligible people are people or lovers who have been together for at least two years to five years or more and have stuck to each other through thick and thin. If you stick with your man or woman for 5 years through thick and thin, you deserve to be celebrated. In doing this, I made the song “Keys to my Heart,” speaking about my own love story in my own song. I made the song for my woman, speaking about my own love story. I will like everybody to identify “Keys to their Hearts” and celebrate them on St. Valentine’s Day. I’m not trying to make money with this song, I’m just trying to celebrate true love. Love should be celebrated,” he said. He added that he likes the idea of St. Valentine’s Day but believes every couple or lovers should celebrate love everyday, emphasizing the importance of women and how they should be celebrated. In his words: “I feel like if you are in love and you have a relationship you should celebrate your relationship and celebrate your woman everyday. But then, having a special day set aside for it and recognized by the world is actually something beautiful, and an opportunity for you to spoil your woman. I was watching online the other day and I saw my brother Davido bought a very expensive watch for the mother of his first son Chioma, an expensive watch worth 6 million naira. So, Davido has actually led and paved the way for us to spoil our women. I have plans like that, I don’t want to talk too much about what I want to do for my woman but for sure I’m going to spoil her on that day. Some days ago when I posted a picture on my Instagram page, throwing a challenge to people on who has the “Keys to your Heart”, money or love. I was disappointed with most of the reactions I got. Many chose money over love, including many women. Love is the most important thing in life, it should be the first option in our lives.” Ukpabi, known all over Africa and the world as Mr. Dutch is a young Afro-Cyborg singer who has hits like ‘Antidote’, ‘Better Soup’ and ‘Eno Finish’ featuring Burna Boy to his credit.