The West African Postgraduate College of Medical Laboratory Science (WAPCMLS) has said that Nigeria has the capacity to contain any unforeseen outbreak of the coronavirus. Briefing journalists on the planned induction of fellows and the 2020 annual congress of the college billed for February 21 to 23, Dr. Godswill Okara, Chairman, Steering Board of WAPCMLS, observed that  should the coronavirus (now COVID-19) come to our clime, Nigeria has the capacity, personnel and designated facilities to respond appropriately. “We have the capacity to contain any unforeseen outbreak of the coronavirus, and some regional laboratories have been put on red alert. Medical Laboratory scientists are fully involved and working behind the scene in the various laboratories like it happened in Lagos in 2014. It was in the research labs of LUTH and Redeemers’ University, that the Ebola virus was identified and diagnosed. That rapid identification and diagnosis made all the difference. “Even when Nigeria succeeded in controlling the problem, a number of our colleagues from Nigeria were drafted by the WHO and sent to Liberia and other West African countries that had challenge. Until we leverage on that to ensure that we stimulate and catalyse the development of capacity across the region, we may never know the kind of blessings we have in-country. Given the enabling environment and infrastructural facility, Nigerian health professionals can perform wonders. If the COVID-19 does come to our clime, we have the capacity, personnel and designated facilities that can respond appropriately. “The laboratories that both the Federal Ministry of Health and the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), are looking up to for diagnostic intervention are all manned by medical laboratory scientists, and we are certainly carried along. The earlier West Africans come together to address the peculiarities of our region the better for us. “We have seen other epidemics that have been contained by this country in the past like Ebola, because the vectors of the virus were not commonly found in Nigeria, the threat was not there except if a person carrying the virus travels from another place to us. It is the same with coronavirus. Also, in all our borders, particularly the air borders, those coming from abroad can easily be detected. That is why we are saying we are prepared.”