The Chinese Embassy in Nigeria has declared that 304 Coronavirus patients have died out of 14,380 cases recorded. It also said 328 others, who were infected, have been discharged from various hospitals. Also, a 1,000-bed Huoshenshan Hospital has been built within 10 days in Wuhan where the disease outbreak occurred. These facts were contained in an update released on Sunday by the Press Officer, the Embassy of China in Nigeria, SUN Saixiong. The statement said: “On the Chinese mainland, the number of confirmed cases climbed to 14,380 as of Saturday at midnight, including 304 deaths. 328 people have been released from hospitals after being cured, data released by the commission on Sunday morning showed. “The number of confirmed infections in the China’s Hong Kong (14) and Macao (7) special administrative regions and Taiwan province (10) had risen to 31 in total. “A total of 137,594 people that have had close contact with infected patients are still under medical observation, while 8,044 such people were released from observation on Feb 1. Quoting Xinhua News Agency, the statement said: “A new hospital built in just ten days in a Chinese city hit hardest by the novel coronavirus outbreak will soon start operation. “Approved by Chairman of the Central Military Commission Xi Jinping, 1,400 medical staff from the armed forces are tasked with treating patients in the 1,000-bed Huoshenshan Hospital in Wuhan starting from Monday. “This is the latest development in the Chinese people’s critical battle against the novel coronavirus outbreak, with the number of cumulative confirmed cases on the Chinese mainland reaching 14,380 by the end of Saturday. “Commanding this fight is President Xi Jinping, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee. “Under Xi’s leadership, China has taken unprecedented measures to contain the outbreak, pooling national medical personnel and supplies to the hardest hit regions, building new hospitals, extending the Chinese Lunar New Year holiday, postponing the opening dates for schools and businesses, and imposing travel restrictions. “The nation is currently experiencing a peak period of confirmed cases. With prevention and control measures in place, the number of future infections will be significantly reduced, said Li Lanjuan, a renowned Chinese epidemiologist. “World Health Organization (WHO) Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said China’s measures are not only protecting its people, but also protecting the people in the whole world. “President Xi’s personal guidance and deployment show his great leadership capability,” Tedros said.