 WHAT inspired you to go into entrepreneurship? The concept behind Royal Hugs Surprises is to make people happy. We make people happy because there are so many sad people in this country, so it is important to make people happy by surprising people. Tell us how you do this? People usually contact us, telling us who they want us to make happy; a wife, husband, a child or anybody they wish to make happy with a surprise on special occasions.  Most of the occasion is always birthdays. If it is not birthday, it is wedding anniversary, or ‘I love you’ or may be ‘I’m sorry’; that’s when you have offended a loved one. Or sometimes it might just be ‘I love you’, an occasion where you try to put smile on the person’s face. So we go as a team to surprise the person and our job is to make them happy. We go there with positive vibe, we do our best; we sing and dance. I love positive vibe and we always go with that positive vibe. We just want to make the world a better place. Honestly, that is the vision. What we are doing now is that we are trying to build a concept where we tell people that it does not have to be a special occasion or St. Valentine Day before you show love to someone. We have a lot of surprise packages for St. Valentine Day! It is the busiest period of the year for us. So what does Valentine Day mean to you personally? Valentine means love, showing love and spreading love; making people happy and making people feel loved. That’s what valentine means to me. I love valentine! So if I am to surprise someone special at this period, what are the things you would do for me? Well, what we do is that we ask the person contacting us to give us some details about the person he/she wants us to surprise, because we do not know anything about such people and for us to really surprise a person and make him/her happy, we need to know a bit about the person’s personality. Is the person quiet or is he/she loud? What does the person like? What we do is that someone would just call us and say, for example, please surprise my wife with a car. They go that far. We have done so many deliveries of cars to loved ones. What we do basically is to just love. They also call us for proposal. Like I want to propose to my girlfriend; we do all that. So, for me, personally I feel every day should be valentine. As I said, we have various packages which people can pick up to show love but it doesn’t have to a on a particular day before you show love to someone. So, what if I am someone that does not like surprises? Now, what really gets them is the saxophone. The highlight of the surprise is usually the saxophone we bring along during a surprise visit to someone. So, if the person is a kind of person that does not like surprises, we do not go with saxophone. We just drop the gift and wish the person happy birthday and leave. Obviously, there are people that do not like surprises. How would you describe the experience so far? The impact has been far-reaching. Through this job we have surprised Aliko Dangote. We surprised him two years ago. We have surprised so many people including 90 percent of our celebrities. So, it has opened doors for me, personally, to meet amazing people. I am the only child of my mom and so, I am very emotional. So, everything gets me because they don’t see it coming. So, I would say that 90 percent of all we have done gets to me. You know most of the time these people cry and so they get to me. Obviously, I can’t cry there. I have to be professional. So, I wouldn’t say a particular one; I would say almost everything. What inspired you to do this? At a point in life I felt very lonely. That was exactly five years ago. I was extremely depressed. I didn’t feel loved. I didn’t feel life was worth living. It was just a little bit for me to commit suicide.  It wasn’t a good feeling and just about then, someone from Port Harcourt, a friend I hardly talked with, sent me a cake on my birthday. That cake was like a million naira to me because, from that moment, I felt loved. It touched me so much because I wasn’t expecting it and it just lifted my spirit. And I said wow, if this can happen to me, I can as well make it happen to other people. So, I started doing same to my friends without charging them and I saw the way it usually brightened up their day or mood. From there, I said I could turn this into business and that was how I started charging people. Then boom, boom, boom… that was how it all started. So, the business started out of depression. And then my friend sent me a cake and he just made my day. Would you say it is lucrative? It has been good. I thank God. I didn’t need to start with any capital because people will always send the money I use in purchasing things for the surprise packages for them. I don’t use my money. So, the business has been extremely rewarding. Tell us about growing up. What was your childhood dream? I didn’t really have a dream growing up. Come to think about it! I was just the normal child. But what I know is that I have always loved money right from my younger days.  I attended Chrisland Schools in Opebi, Lagos, and then I went to Queens College, Lagos, before I finally travelled abroad to attend a college. I came back home and completed my university at Caleb University, Lagos, where I studied Economics. But then I had already started selling Lolly Pop while I was in secondary school to make money and at a point I was suspended from school for selling sweets at school. When I entered the university too, I started a restaurant /barbecue business.  So I have always had passion for entrepreneurship rather than dreaming of becoming a lawyer or doctor. What were your parents’ reactions when they found out you started pursuing money at a very tender age? I think I took after my mother. She is a serial businesses woman, so I definitely took after her.  And, today, she is extremely proud of me. What are the challenges like doing this kind of business? Logistics is the most challenging, especially the traffic in Lagos. It has been tough but we still thank God. If you were not into surprises what else would you have loved to do? I would have loved to be a caterer because I love cooking and I am still looking forward to doing that someday. What is your vision for Royal Hugs Surprises? We want to go global. The truth is that I travel a lot and each time I travel, I try to make people happy for free wherever I find myself. Obviously, in some countries, I am not allowed to work there, so I do such for free for close friends and family members to put smiles on their faces. My vision for real is, first thing first, to focus on Nigeria and how to make people happy because there are so many depressed people. Lots of people are falling into depression and committing suicide in recent times, especially young people. From your experience in the past how would you advise them? Okay, because I am very spiritual, I would advise that we get closer to God, regardless of your religion. Just believe that there is someone that created you and has a purpose for your life. Nobody is having it easy; you just need strength not to give up. So, honestly, I would advise for you to first of all connect with the Creator. If not for God I would have died. I was so sad!  You don’t need to give up because everything in life is stages. And one thing I have noticed, especially for myself, is that when good things want to come, that’s when it gets so tough. So, don’t give up. It is a challenge that would come to pass, then you find a solution. So why take your life? Just face that challenge. It might be long but don’t give up. I love positivity. Be positive and surround yourself with positive people; people that would encourage you. But first believe in God because God is real.