 GUNMEN have invaded the Zaria, Kaduna State home of a former Vice Chancellor of Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) Zaria, Prof. Abdullahi Mustapha, taking away his daughter. The abducted woman, 35-year-old Maryam Abdullahi Mustapha, is said to be a mother of three. The incident took place about 11:30pm on Friday night, The Nation gathered. It was learnt that the kidnappers shot a security guard before gaining  access to the former VC’s apartment. A source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told our correspondent that the armed men forced out occupants of the house, including the daughter who was on a visit from Lagos. The gunmen wielded sophisticated weapons, the source said, describing the entire situation as terrifying. “We suspected that they have an informant who must have conducted a survey of the area,” he said, adding that the bandits were yet to contact the Professor’s family or make any demands. The source said, “The gunmen invaded the former VC’s residence in commando style and headed straight to the Prof’s apartment. They ordered one of the security guards on duty to lead them to Professor’s room. The security man attempted to run and he was shot. “But they eventually made their way into the house where they met several occupants, including the Professor’s daughter who came from Lagos on a visit. “The bandits are yet to call to make demand since the incident on Friday night.” Spokesman of the police command DSP Yakubu Sabo confirmed the incident, saying their men killed one of the bandits upon arriving at the ex-VC’s home after receiving a distress call. He said the security guard shot at the professor’s residence was responding to treatment at the Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital, Shika in Zaria where he was rushed to. Sabo also said a loaded AK47 magazine and a Tecno mobile phone were recovered from the body of neutralised bandit. He said the distress call was made by the Divisional Police Officer, Samaru Division, in whose division the abduction took place. The police said that the command was “doing everything possible to ensure that the victim is rescued unharmed”.