 Cormart Nigeria Ltd, a leading chemical and food raw material company and a member of TGI Group, has partnered Barry Callebaut, a leading manufacturer of high-quality chocolate and cocoa products, to support pastry bakers. The two companies are planning to bring the pastry and bakery, the horeca and home-cooking industry in Nigeria, to a new level. High quality chocolates, through the Callebaut brand and other bakery solutions and decorations, will be provided by Cormart and Barry Callebaut, as well as a comprehensive training and capacity building programme. Cormart’s General Manager, Dr. Johannes Flosbach, expressed his delight about the new partnership. He said: “It is with great pride that we formalise this agreement with our partner, Barry Callebaut. Working hand-in-hand, we will strengthen our joint commitment to ensure that top notch chocolate and knowledge will be provided for Nigerian bakers.” Business Unit Head, Cormart’s Food & Nutrition Department, Felicia Onabanjo, commented on the quality of Callebaut’s chocolate.  She said: “The products are used by many professionals for their workability and typical taste, which have remained constant over the decades. This new partnership will help bridge the gap between a premium chocolate brand and our local manufacturers in Nigeria.” Barry Callebaut’s Managing Director in Nigeria, Adriaan Verbeke, commented on Callebaut’s business interest. “Barry Callebaut has now set up a permanent base in Nigeria. We currently source cocoa beans and sell chocolate. We will continue to develop our activities in this promising country and hope to be able to develop the cocoa and chocolate industry to new levels,” he said. Amaka Nwajei, Cormart’s Product Manager for Barry Callebaut, also expressed her pleasure about the partnership. She said: “I am very positive about the new partnership. Barry Callebaut is very supportive and they provide product application support and trainings. This is an excellent step to enable us assist our customers accordingly.”