By Ibrahim Mustapha  Sir: Nigerian security challenges have continued to deteriorate with the growing distrust among the government and Nigerians. Nigerians have expressed dissatisfaction and disappointment with way government responds to the killings in the country. The recent massacre of 30 stranded motorists and passengers in Auno village, Borno State is very sad and frightening. While Nigerians are mourning the death of innocent travellers, another sad story of killings by armed bandits filled the air with reports of a family of 16 locked up and burned to ashes in a village in Giwa Local Government of Kaduna State by suspected bandits. The incessant killings have become the daily occurrence. The persistence of the attacks on defenceless Nigerians has raised several questions on the ability of the government to achieve the primary function of government which is the protection of lives and properties. In the last one decade, the country has not known peace. The country is at war with Boko Haram, bandits and killers herdsmen. Sadly, what Nigerians continued to hear from the government is that Boko Haram has been technically defeated or that the government is on top of the security situation. These calming words from government officials unfortunately have failed to stem the tide of killings.  Little wonder then the calls from different parts of the country on the president to sack his service chiefs. The House of Representatives, Northern Elders Forum (NEF) and other civil society organizations disturbed by the killing have since passed a vote of no confidence on the service chiefs. The common refrain is that the service chiefs have overstayed and so have run out of ideas to confront the modern security challenges. Nigerians are worried at the resurgent killings and the supersonic speed with which the murderers continue to carry out their attacks. When President Buhari expressed surprise and anguish at how the Boko Haram and the bandits have held the country to ransom, many blamed the head of our security agencies for not telling the president the true picture of the security situation. During the President Buhari’s first term, the terrorists were pushed back or partially crushed courtesy of our gallant troops. However, the gains recorded in the fight against the group have been eroded with the renewed attacks. Before Nigerians get killed by these terrorists, bandits and killer herdsmen, the government should move swiftly to contain their madness. There is also the need for government to address the root causes of insecurity which border on poverty, unemployment and poor governance. 