By Mike Odiegwu, Yenagoa An ex-militant leader, Paul Eris, has berated politicians constituting nuisances around the Bayelsa Governor-elect, Chief David Lyon. Eris, popularly called Ogunboss, said most politicians abandoned their homes and jobs to run after Lyon including invading his privacy for appointments. He said such politicians had lost their self-respect as they were fond of sitting around Lyon uninvited and increasing his daily expenses. Eris, in a statement in Yenagoa said: “To all men that have good conscience, some of your actions, running after the governor-elect, invading even his privacy in Abuja is no longer making efforts to tolerate you. “Don’t you think the man may be losing feelings when you have to sit around him uninvited at all times and looking stupid increasing his bills on daily basis? “Seven years ago, some of you were active members of the Restoration Government and butterflies in Dickson’s stomach enjoying almost eight years with the outgoing governor. “I am not asking you to go and endure as others respectfully did for the Dickson’s years, but don’t you think it’s too early for such birds to have the warm? A wise man is one individual who finds strength to endure in spite of overwhelming fear.  “Do you think those who took the courage and vision of divine to return or go back to their villages after so much measure of danger during the elections were foolish and didn’t know how to go about it? “I don’t need any permission to live a bold life, it is unbecoming and shamelessly embarrassing, how some of us have suddenly become burden engaging in acts that decline respect”. Eris said such politicians were mounting pressure on Lyon to secure appointments they never deserved following their antecedents. He said: “At this point, we must understand that respect is useful, there’s always two or more men looking for that position you’re also eyeing. If you know this and respect others the same way you want to be respected. “I have never advocated for a course in private that I will be too ashamed to admit publicly. If those of us in the APC were to defect immediately or back down after Dickson won the 2016 elections, you may not be enjoying the freedom today. “We were steadfast in the rain and in the sun even at bad moments of heavy thunder storms in our communities, such as Brass, Peremabiri, Nembe, parts of Ogbia and Yenagoa. We met threats and political witch-hunt, but we took courage to stand for light. “We were all like you, we also had big and flat stomachs, but we never allowed God to appear only in the form of food over good struggles”.