A budding songwriter-cum-musician, Eyanro Ayokanmi Oluwasegun, has said that he has written no fewer than 5,000 songs. The Ilorin, Kwara State-based songster, whose stage name is Frequencie, added that he has over 702 songs under processing. Frequencie, who is a Master’s degree holder, said his about 38 songs of extended playlist (EP) will be released at the end of this month under Soft Life Style (SLS) record label. The artiste said he resisted pressure to relocate to Lagos, choosing to remain in Ilorin and be a role model to young talented artistes in the state. Frequencie featured the late rapper, Dagrin, in his song titled ‘E je kama understand ara wa’, just as he also collaborated with Sean Tizzle and Vector on one of his singles. He also said that he performed at Felabration 2017 at the invitation of Kuti family because of his genre and type of music, which is modelled after the late Afrobeat Maestro, Fela Anikulapo Kuti. Oluwasegun, a native of Aiyetoro in Kogi State, said he has been singing since his formative years, noting that the genius in him prompted people around to support him. “I have been singing right from my childhood,” the musician said. “As I grew older, we started attending carnivals at Taiwo Isale (in Ilorin) and people started saying I had talent that I should start writing my own songs. I started writing officially in 2007, the year I first entered into the studio and recorded my first song. “I have both talents. I can write my own music and I have the voice to sing my own song. But the finance of sponsoring yourself is very high. So, what I do in the studio basically is that I download different sounds and record myself all days and nights. I’m also a ghost writer. “I involve in ghost writing because Africans do not understand the occupation of song writing. In 2015, I was deployed to Sokoto for my NYSC. When I saw the infrastructure of NYSC in Sokoto and coupled with the way we were fed, it was very painful to see the condition of things there. My colleagues and I decided that we should have a theme song, and that was what made me to sing ‘Wazobia’ in 2016. I redeployed to Ilorin because Sokoto wasn’t good for my career. “That year, I got an email from the Fela Kuti family that I should come for Felabration 2017. I decided to be in Ilorin to grow the city and become role model to young talented children. We built a studio for our own indigenous artistes to come here for recording because if you go to Lagos, you would not be impressed. “In 2017, we recorded free for over 100 students from all higher institutions in Kwara State; they were so excited that they have something like this in Ilorin.” He asked the government to stop the attitude of attending to individuals and the penchant for importing artistes to the state to the detriment of indigenous artistes. Oluwasegun admonished the youth to understand themselves and stop chasing shadows, adding that they must also work hard and be rest assured that Nigeria will be great. He urged the state government to build theatre halls which could attract people to Ilorin and make the city more popular. According to him, the use of the facilities would also go a long way in providing employment opportunities for young artistes from the state.