The Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), the Lagos State government and other relevant agencies have been urged to support the promoters of Ijegun Port City to decongest the Apapa and Tin-Can Island ports and boost the economy. Finding revealed that the promoters of the port city have invested over $11million on assets, dredging and reclaiming of swamp areas. The Ijegun Port City is about two killometres from the Tin-Can Island port in Lagos. A resident of Ijegun, in Amuwo Odofin Local Government Area of Lagos State, Mr Rasaq Baligun, said the Ijegun Port City is worth over $30 million and urged the NPA and the government to collaborate with its promoters to generate employment. Balogun said they were happy that the promoters had constructed a one-kilometre road, bridge and water channel that would soon be inaugurated by the government. An importer, Chief Felix Anderson, urged the management of the NPA to support Westron Properties, the promoter of the port, and key into the initiative of using barges to move containers from the Apapa ports to Ijegun Port City. Speaking with The Nation on the efforts of his company to reduce the congestion and free Apapa roads from the perennial gridlock, the Chairman, Westron Properties and a promoter of the port city, Chief George Igboegun, said his company developed the initiative so that the port city could absorb up to 50 per cent of the cargoes at Apapa ports. He said with the cooperation from the government and other government agencies, the port city, which  absorbs 25 per cent of the Apapa traffic, would absorb 50 per cent of the cargoes at Lagos ports. He said: “The demand for port facilities in the ever-growing city of Lagos has seen an exponential growth in the last few years. The resultant effect is that even the addition of Tin Can Island port could still not meet this demand. “This has led to the chaos Apapa has turned into, with the nation losing tonnes of money daily. Efforts by the government to ease the pain of Apapa have not yielded the desired result. “The emerging port city of Ijegun is a private sector initiative borne out of necessity. “Our company was involved in industrial fishing and we were usually caught up with delays at the Apapa Port with the gridlock on the axis. “Our fishing trawlers could not find adequate berthing facilities; while searching for a solution to the problem, we stumbled on the calm waters and natural harbour of Ijegun, and decided to explore the maritime potential with active cooperation of government,” he said. Igboegwu said the demand for port facilities in Lagos had seen an exponential growth in the last few years. “The resultant effect is that even the addition of Tin Can Port can still not meet this demand. “This has led to the chaos Apapa has turned into, with the nation losing money daily. “Efforts by the government to ease the pain have not yielded the desired results,’’ he said. Igboegwu said the establishment of Ijegun Port City had brought  development and increased the  storage capacity for petroleum products, thus reducing incidences of shortage. He said Lagos warehoused about 60 per cent of the nation’s petroleum products, adding that 25 per cent was handled at Ijegun. “Today, there are 12 tank farms in Ijegun for liquid petroleum products, holding a storage capacity of about 600,000,000 litres and product storage. “Four of these are sited on land developed and sold to the tank farm developers by us;  also, we have land to accommodate further eight of such facilities,’’ he said. Igboegwu said that availability of requisite infrastructure for the new city had been a problem, noting, however, that various parties had been making contributions toward this, under the umbrella of the Ijegun Tank Farm Association. He said that a new bridge and road built by Westron represented part of its contributions toward bridging the infrastructure gap. He said that the projects would present additional development in the area and result in further growth of the new city.