 The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Ibadan zonal office on Tuesday, arraigned an ex-banker, Akinwole Oluwaseun Dosunmu, alongside his wife, Motunrayo Olanike Dosunmu before Justice Ladiran Akintola of the Oyo State High Court, sitting in Ibadan. The duo were accused of stealing the sum of N2, 740,300.92 from the Sterling Bank Plc. According to the available information, Akinwale was a staffer of the bank, while his wife was a customer and a beneficiary in the bank’s Third Party Acquirer Scheme. The bank had initiated the scheme as a marketing strategy through which relatives and friends of their marketing agents are awarded commission for bringing new customers to open and operate new accounts with the bank. Akinwole, also a marketer with the bank, was appointed to coordinate the scheme. Apart from the commission on account opening, the referral also enjoys certain percentage on the saving made through the accounts every month. It was, however, alleged that while reviewing activities under the scheme in 2016, the bank discovered that most of the accounts appropriated to Motunrayo as a third-party acquirer were fraudulently tagged to her by her husband. The investigation allegedly further revealed that the accounts were never sourced by neither of the couple, but by other third-party agents. According to the petition filed by the bank, the couple had benefited a total of N2, 740,300.9292 as commission fraudulently paid to Motunrayo through the scheme. It was on account of the allegation and further investigations by the EFCC that the couple were arraigned on a 16-count charge of stealing on Tuesday. The offence is contrary to Section 390 (9) of the Criminal Code Laws CAP 38, Laws of Oyo State, 2000. Count one of the charge reads: “That you, Akinwole Oluwaseun Dosunmu and Motunrayo Olanike Dosunmu between the months of July 2015 and April 2016 at Ibadan within the jurisdiction of this Honourable court, did commit an illegal act, to wit, stealing of the aggregate sum of N1,280,554.38 (One Million, Two Hundred and Eighty Thousand, Five Hundred and Fifty Four Naira, Thirty-Eight Kobo) property of Sterling Bank Plc under the guise that the account of one Odediran Oluwafemi and An Nee was generated by Motunrayo Olanike Dosunmu and thereby committed an offense.” The defendants, however, pleaded not guilty to the charges preferred against them. In view of their plea, counsel to the EFCC, Ifeanyi Agwu, applied for a date for trial. However, the defense counsel, J. B. Olaoye, informed the court that he had filed applications for bail on behalf of the accused persons. Justice Akintola has adjourned till Friday, February 21, 2020, for hearing of the bail applications. The judge ordered that they be remanded in the Agodi, Ibadan custody of the Nigerian Correctional Service, NCS, pending the adjourned date.