Fourteen year-old Ifeoluwa Ademuwa, an SS3 student of Chrisfield College has won the first prize of MTN Nigeria kid-CEO spelling B competition. Ademuwa competed against over 1,400 students across Lagos State to become the overall winner. Seventy schools across the state fielded their best to compete with their mates from various locales in Lagos. Enthusiastic teachers stretched their necks as they watched students vie for the ultimate spot. After nearly five months of competition, Ademuwa emerged as the winner. Ademuwa expressed the excitement of the finalists who walked into MTN Plaza in December 2019, to assume their roles. The runners-up were the kid CEO’s advisers. Ademuwa shared his excitement; “I didn’t know that the CEO for a day would be this massive. The Chief Human Resources Officer greeted me outside! I’ve been sharing and swapping ideas with Mazen, the Chief Operating Officer. Since I stepped in here, it has been an amazing time. I’m not sure how to thank MTN. This has been an unbelievable experience. Thank you so much.” The spelling B competitions, which targets integral blocks of these subjects could get the much-needed traction, attention, and following that will push children in the right direction. The “Spelling Bee” competition can push these factors for English grammar skills for Nigerian students. To clarify, the “Spelling Bee” is a competition that pushes participants to spell a broad selection of words, usually with varying degrees of difficulty. The contestants memorize the spellings of words as written in dictionaries, and recite them accordingly. These exercises are good vocabulary boosters and help with confidence as well. The President of the National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools (NAPPS), Alhaji (Dr) Wasiu Adumadeyi pointed out in an interview that studying for a spelling bee does not just entail rote memorization of words, but actually “involves a lot more learning than most people imagine.” He was at the Grand Finale of the Lagos State Private Schools Spelling Bee competition sponsored by MTN Nigeria’s tweens and teens offering – mPulse. Chief Marketing Officer, MTN Nigeria, Rahul De said: “The one-day CEO experience will open the winner and his peers to an aspect of life that is interesting. I believe the process will enhance their overall development. We are glad to be part of this, which further affirms our commitment to equipping young Nigerians. This is one of the cardinal reasons we introduced mPulse.” “With MTN mPulse, we seek to show children and parents that a well-grounded educational and ‘fun-based’ platform can expand the future beyond what we have predicted. I am excited for the thousands of children that have stepped up to the podium to participate since the competition began. They have taken the first steps towards transforming their lives and we are very proud of them.” Six months after the competition, each child has become emboldened to do more and be more.