A Schengen visa allows free travel within selected countries of Europe. You will not need to apply to numerous embassies when travelling within these countries and you can easily take a short flight or train ride to move between them. There are different types of Schengen visas and most travellers will apply for a short stay visit, which is valid for 90 days. Citizens from Nigeria, all of Africa and many other countries would need to apply for the Schengen visa to visit Europe. If you are travelling through one of the countries in the Schengen area, you will need an airport transit visa. There are 26 countries in total that the visa covers. While 22 of them are part of the European Union, Iceland, Norway, Switzerland, and Liechtenstein are not. Your Schengen visa will be valid for 90 days of travel in the Schengen area, over a period of 180 days (six months) from the day that it is issued. Countries you require a Schengen visa: They are: Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Switzerland, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Iceland and Latvia. Others include: Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Slovenia, Spain, Slovakia and Sweden. Types of Schengen Visas Category A: Airport Transit Visa – needed when travelling through an airport situated within the Schengen area. Category C: Short-term Visa – this is standard tourist visa, which is valid for up to 90 days. Short-term visa will also include how many times you will be allowed to re-enter countries within the Schengen area. This includes: single entry, double and multiple entry. Other than a tourist visa, there are many other types of short-term visas. These include: business, medical treatment, religious purposes, sport competition, conference, government delegation, study and invitation visas. Limited Territory Visa This Schengen visa allows the holder to only travel within the country/countries that the visa has been issued to. You will not be allowed entry into any other countries in the Schengen area. This type of visa is usually only issued in some type of emergency, limiting the user to a specific country or area. You may also apply for a long-term visa if you are going to be reunited with family living in one of the Schengen countries, have a family member that is an EU citizen and plan to visit for an extended period of time, as well as if you have been granted a job in the Schengen area. What you need to apply *You need to apply in time for visa processing *A completed Schengen application form *Valid passport (with 2 consecutive clean pages) and a full-colour copy of data page *Two passport photos *Bank statements of the last three months- Bank details *Hotel reservations in your choice of country *Medical insurance *Round trip flight reservation *Evidence of a need to return back to Nigeria (letter from employer, etc) *Colour copies of all previous Schengen visas (if applicable) *Employment details of the last three months