For many years, Nigerian artistes have been dictating and dominating musical tunes across the world, drawing interest beyond borders, most especially through Afro-beats and other genre of music peculiar to Nigeria by showcasing the vitality of a creative industry. This has attracted top musical stars across the globe, encouraging new talents and investors trooping in to stabilise the entertainment industry. However, while others are still trying to put their feet on ground in the highly competitive industry, fast-rising, creative and talented rapper, Okafor Golden Chinedu, popularly known as Xbusta, is ready to storm the industry with his versatility. Born in Lagos on the 24th of February, 1994, he hails from Orlu, Imo State. He started his education at St Gregory Primary and Secondary School. Lagos before moving to Owerri to complete his tertiary education. Xbusta graduated with a Second Class Upper degree in Estate Management from Imo State University, Owerri, Nigeria. The singer- cum- rapper is leaving no stone upturned after mastering his craft with different fusion of Afro-beat. He is taking the art of singing beyond the shores of West Africa and Africa as a whole, having his career blazing high above the skies. When he was asked about those he has shared stage with, he said: “I have shared stage with Kcee, Skiibi, MI, Praize, Olamide, Phyno, Dr Sid, Naeto C, Harrysong, Davido and so many others.” Since 2018, lots of rumour surrounded his exit from his former label Five Star music owned by popular socialite, Emmanuel Okonkwo popularly known as E-Money. Many said he walked out of his contract, while some said there was an irreconcilable difference between him and the Label. Xbusta shed more light on the issue: “Yes, I was signed into Five Star Music Group owned by E-Money but left in 2018 after my fellow label mate, Skiibi and Harrysong left. “For those peddling rumour that I left on a bitter and sober ground, it’s all lies. I am still cool with E-money and Kcee. They still support me and my music. It was a mutual separation. I and FiveStar Music are still families. I love and appreciate them till infinity.”