The Association of Local Government of Nigeria (ALGON), Oyo State branch, on Friday informed a High Court in Ibadan that it received the proposed terms of settlement from the Oyo State government. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Oyo State government instituted the case to prevent the 33 chairmen from returning to their offices as ordered by the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF). At the resumed hearing, Counsel to ALGON, Mr Kunle Sobaloju, confirmed to the court that his client has received the proposed terms of settlement from the Oyo State government. Sobaloju said that the proposed terms of settlement was served on him by the counsel to the claimants’, on Thursday evening.
He said that he has sent the proposed terms of settlement to his clients and awaiting their response. Earlier, the claimants’counsel, Akin Onigbide, had told the court that the proposed terms of settlement had been served on the respondents counsel. NAN reports that other respondents in the suit are the Attorney General of Federation (AGF), Inspector General of Police, Oyo State Commissioner of Police and the state chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC),Mr Akin Oke. Counsel to the AGF, Niyi Akintola,SAN, also confirmed the proposed terms of settlement from the Oyo State government. Counsel to IGP and Oyo State Commissioner of Police, Mrs Fawole Oluwafunke, and Mr Kazeem Gbadamosi,Counsel to the Oyo State APC Chairman, told the court that they were yet to be served but confirmed that settlement was in progress. It would be recalled that the respondents had on Feb. 8 served the Oyo State government their proposed terms of settlement.
Justice Munta Abimbola then adjourned the case untill March 20 for reports of settlement. In an interview after the court proceedings, Akintola, said he was very sure that ALGON would not accept the conditions on the proposed terms of settlement from the Oyo State government. He said that the content on the proposed terms of settlement had showed that the Oyo State government was not ready to settle the matter. (NAN)