Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq has launched the rehabilitation of 31 public schools across the state. He said this would signal the beginning of a new era for the education sector. AbdulRazaq launched the exercise at Baboko Community Secondary School in Ilorin where three blocks of six classrooms are to be rehabilitated and equipped with modern information communication facilities. The rehabilitation of Baboko school is to last for six weeks. The governor said the 31 schools are the first phase of the rehabilitation. The school rehabilitation launch occurred barely one hour after AbdulRazaq supervised the distribution of 932,572 free copies of customised 20, 40 and 80 leaves of exercise books for public school children. He said he has approved the payment of N30.5m penalties imposed on some schools in Kwara for malpractices in last year’s secondary school leaving examination. “The lack of a conducive learning environment and longstanding failure to properly fund education — we last accessed UBEC fund in 2013 — can explain rampant incidence of examination malpractices. We are working to end this menace and return Kwara to the top of the table in the Northcentral and beyond,” he said. AbdulRazaq said the government would soon hold an education summit bringing together all the stakeholders and private sector players to discuss the challenges and evolve with workable solutions. Education Commissioner Fatimah Ahmed hailed the governor for his giant strides in the sector, including the establishment of an ICT centre in the school for special needs and payment of the outstanding arrears of N55million feeding allowance of exchange students inherited from the past administration. She said the administration has also provided N5million worth of teaching aids and other basic equipment at the special needs school, sponsored the 2019 common entrance, and the recent approval of routine training for teachers in the state. Stakeholders in the education sector praised the governor for his determined effort to bring sanity and standard to the sector. 