The National President of Nigeria Association of Chambers Commerce, Industry Mines Agricultural, Hajia Saratu Iya-Aliyu, recently commissioned the world class ultramodern laboratory worth over N100 million donated to Nnamdi Azikiwe University Teaching Hospital (NAUTH) by the newly installed President of South East Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (SECCIMA), Mr. Humphrey Anthony Ngonadi. Iya-Aliyu commended the philanthropist and urged other wealthy Nigerians to emulate him, Pointing out that the government has much responsibility on its shoulder. The commissioning of this project was part of the activities marking the investiture ceremony of the association’s new president, Mr. Humphry Anthony Ngonadi recently at Nnewi, Anambra State. The NACCIMA National President called on wealthy Nigerians to emulate foreign philanthropists who generously give out their hard earned resources to the society. “(I appeal to wealthy NACCIMA members and the society at large to lend a helping hand to the less privileged in our society,” she stressed. Speaking at the occasion, Ngonadi who is also a philanthropist said the need for the donation arose as a result of appeal made to him by the management of (NAUTH), adding that himself and his family contributed to making the project a reality within one year. The industrialist called on other wealthy individuals in the soiety to come to the aid of the less privileged in the society. He stressed that the government alone cannot provide all the needs of the people in view of dwindling resources of the government. He promised more donations to the hospital in the days ahead to meet the medical needs of the community. Also, the philanthropist’s son, Obinna Ngonadi, notes that himself and the siblings pulled resources together to support their father fulfill his dream of providing medical facilities to the community. Responding, the Chief medical director of the institute, Prof. Anthony Igwegbe who was represented by Dr. Ezejiofor Ugochukwu, who is the deputy chairman, Medical Advisory Commeettee of the hospital commend the benefactor for his great philanthropic gesture. “Our vissision in NAUTH is to be the best tertiary hospital east of the Niger, which we strive to achieve offering high quality services by well trained, motivated and client-friedly staff,” he emphasized. The NAUTH Boss appealed to Ngonadi and other wealthy individuals to assist the institute on its bud to move to its permanent site. In his handover speech, the former President of the body, Ide John Udeagbala called on the Federal Government to create enabling environment that will promote business growth and economic development within the region and the country at large.