The Federal Government on Wednesday approved N32 billion for projects under the Works and Housing, Water Resources and Aviation ministries. Briefing State House correspondents after the weekly Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting at the Presidential Villa, Minister of Works and House, Mr Babatunde Fasola (SAN), said his ministry got approval for two projects. One of the projects is in Sokoto and the other in Jigawa states; both are to be executed at the cost of about N30 billion. Fashola said: “The Ministry of Works and Housing presented one memo for the award of two roads; the first is Balle-Kurdulla to the Niger Republic border road in Sokoto State. “It’s in favour of Messers North Sea Limited joint venture with Caeser Engineering at N9.576 billion, to be completed in 24 months. The road is 46 kilometres “The second one is for Kanya-Bababura to Niger Republic border phase two, which is in Jigawa State, in favour of Messers Mother at Limited at N19,763.567 million. The road 50 kilometres in length.” Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, said the Council approved the two items on his memo, which were for the refurbishment and equipping of the Accident Investigation Bureau’s (AIB) offices and the construction of the bureau’s training school, both in Abuja. He said the projects were estimated to gulp N1.2 billion. “The contract sum for the construction of the school is N645, 453,627.80. For the refurbishment of the office, it is N591,857,050.39. It was taken and approved. “The sum has laboratory components and these equipment are from their manufacturers, through their representatives. “They will be certified by the International Civil Aviation Organisation and the NCAA (Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority), which is the regulator of the industry in Nigeria.” Minister of Water Resources, Suleiman Adamu, said the Council approved the only project presented: Kontagora/Auna Dam project in Niger State, at the cost of NN734.5 million. “The Ministry presented one memo to the Council. This memo sought an extension to the consultancy services related to Kontagora/Auna Dam and Irrigation Project. “This is a project that was started in 1987 and abandoned. As part of our efforts to complete ongoing and abandoned projects, we revived it in 2017/2018. “Since we have revised it and there’s going to be an extension of time, it makes sense for the consultants that have been working to the project to also have an extension of their services. “Accordingly, the Council approved the extension of the services of the consultants by three years for the total sum of N734.5 million. That was our presentation today. Kontagora/Auna is in Niger State,” he said. 