Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has urged state governments, private sector, and international development agencies to proffer strategies and interventions for a holistic and evolutionary job creation outcome for youths. He spoke at the opening ceremony of the maiden edition of the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF) Employment Summit 2020, with the theme: ‘Showcasing Leading Practices in Job Creation’. It was held at the Radisson Blu, GRA, Ikeja. Sanwo-Olu, represented by Wealth Creation and Employment Commissioner Mrs. Yetunde Arobieke, noted that the successes of the LSETF are enough learning for governments and corporate businesses to tackle unemployment across the nation. “Our interventions in job creation have been instrumental to the 6.7% drop in the unemployment rate as recorded by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), making Lagos the state with the highest job creation record nationwide as at Q3, 2018,” the governor said. He added: “Our desire is to stimulate similar outcomes in every state in Nigeria. It is this underlining rationale and in partnership with the Nigeria Governor’s Forum that we have come together to share ideas, case studies and success stories to reverberate these same energies and impact on a national scale. “Through this summit, the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund and subject matter experts in the job creation space will identify challenges, showcase leading practices, share learnings and success stories that have helped in achieving job creation.” Sanwo-Olu said his administration is committed to providing entrepreneurs and productive population with the resources needed to work efficiently. He said the purpose of every progressive government was to provide a working order that would promote a positive effect on the economy and impact prosperity. The governor said with the reality of the growing population in Lagos, the need to provide the capacity to manage the citizens’ demands was paramount, adding that the government would devise strategies to address the challenges through such establishment as the state’s Employment Trust Fund. LSETF Chairman Mrs. Ifueko Omoigui-Okauru said the summit was necessary to showcase learning in job creation and global best practices to help in efforts to combat chronic unemployment situation. “During this two-day summit, I look forward to all of us learning, unlearning, relearning and taking back actionable points that will enable innovative ways to promote job creation through skills development, entrepreneurship, access to affordable funding and applied technology to our organisations,” she said. force in reducing the rate of unemployment in Nigeria, by enabling capacity building for unemployed youths, providing support and access to finance for budding entrepreneurs, thereby creating employment opportunities for residents.” The Acting Executive Secretary, LSETF, Mrs. Teju Abisoye, enjoined the public and private organisations to support the Employment Trust Fund in its deliberate quest to put young people to jobs. She thanked the partners and sponsors for their contributions towards hosting a successful summit. The partners include IBM, Harambee Youth Accelerator South Africa, FCMB, Tek Experts, GIZ, Eko Innovation Centre (EIC), Jobberman, SOS Children’s Village, International Breweries, Coca-Cola, ILO, Workforce Group, PIND Foundation, Stanbic IBTC, Businessday and LASAA.