Red-hot Terem Moffi has had a brilliant start to life in Belgium. The 20 year-old has scored 2 goals in four games for Belgian side KV Kortrijk since he moved from Lithuanian side FK Riteriai on a three and a half year deal in January. The former Golden Eaglets striker was recently voted the Player of the Month by Kortrijk fans and has won two Man-of-the-Match awards since joining the Northern Belgium side. He scored 21 goals in 30 games in the Lithuanian top league last season. Before going to Eastern Europe, the 20 year-old took up a football scholarship at Buckswood School located at the village of Guestling between the towns of Ashford and Hastings in East Sussex in England, having been encouraged by his father, who was a footballer himself before turning to law. His father Leo Moffi was a goalkeeper in his playing days during which time he kept goal for Enugu Rangers, Calabar Rovers, El Kanemi, Vasco da Gama and Black Cats Ogoja. “My dad played a very big part in my choosing football as a career. He is a Lawyer and was a professional footballer.” “He is very knowledgeable in the game. Sometimes I wonder why he didn’t go into football coaching or administration.” “He is a very practical person and he told me clearly while still in junior secondary school that it will be a real waste if I didn’t play football as a career. “He made me understand that a football career has a lifespan and after football I can pursue my education to any level I want. “He and my mom put in a lot of their resources to send me to football academies and my flight tickets to the UK to take up a football scholarship at Buckswood School.” “My dad equally influenced the way I now play. He told me I needed to add plenty of aggression, power and pace to my game to be a successful modern day striker.” Future ambitions Moffi’s main goal as a footballer is to win trophies for the national team and maybe score in the World Cup. He also would like to play in the best leagues in the world and sees his time in Belgium as a stepping stone to bigger things to come. “My ultimate ambition is to play in the Super Eagles team, score goals for the team and win trophies for Nigeria at continental and World Cup level. “At a personal level I naturally want to develop my game and play for some of the best teams in the best leagues in the world. “My immediate target is to keep working harder and develop myself to be able to make a mark in the Belgium league like I did in the Lithuanian league. This will make a move to one of the big leagues easier.” Moffi added that he would like to improve on the records he achieved in Lithuania, where he scored 21 goals in 30 games in one season. “I am hoping I will improve on my performance in the Lithuanian league where I scored 21 goals (20 in the league and one in the FA Cup) in 30 matches in the past season. “That is apart from the seven other goals I scored in 10 friendly matches. I therefore intend to work harder. I realize that if I do well a move to a bigger league will be my reward” Adapting from Lithuania to Belgium “In the present circumstance it is easy for me to adapt. “I moved from Buckswood School in the UK to Lithuania and I adapted well. Lithuania to Belgium is a lot easier to adapt.  “My team mates here have been fantastic. So have the fans and club officials. They’ve made me feel very much at home.” “My fellow Nigerians in Kortrijk; Imoh Ezekiel and Abduljeleel Ajagun have been fantastic since I moved here. “They have shown me the true Nigerian spirit. They have shown me that they can be their brother’s keeper. They’ve offered me a lot of good advice and generally helped me to settle down.” Best Players Moffi names Everton’s Alex Iwobi and Victor Osimhen as his favourite Nigeria players. Moffi recalls that Iwobi took him under his wing during his schooling days in England, adding that their fathers are friends for more than forty years. “Alex Iwobi and Victor Osimhem,” Moffi said when asked who his best players are. “Apart from their footballing abilities they are both great guys.” “As for Alex, he and his family took care of me during my time at Buckswood School in 2017. I used to spend my holidays with them.” “Alex really played the big brother role to me, took my out to a number of places and to play five-a-side games. His dad and my dad have been friends for nearly forty years after they met in their University days.” Moffi named Osimhen as his other favourite because of how the Lille forward encouraged his after he was dropped from the Under 17 side for the World Cup in 2015. “For Osimhen I cannot forget the gesture he extended to me after I was dropped from the Under 17 team on the eve of the team’s departure to Chile in 2015. “He consoled me and gave me a new pair of football boots telling me I will certainly have other opportunities in the future.” Golden Eaglets Moffi was among the final 35-man team of Golden Eaglets class of 2015 and he says the experience was a bitter sweet one in his career as a footballer. His teammates were Victor Osimhen, Samuel Chukwueze and Kelechi Nwakali but he could not dislodge the mercurial Osimhen in the final list for the World Cup in Chile and was dropped at the eve of the tournament by then Under 17 coach and former Tanzania national team coach Emmanuel Amuneke. “The Golden Eaglets experience was both sweet and bitter for me. We were taught a lot in camp. The training was very rigorous and we had a collection of very talented players. “The coaching we received prepared us for the competition and it wasn’t a surprise that we emerged champions. “However it was bitter for me because I was dropped on the eve of the team’s departure to Chile. I was devastated and my young mind went blank when the list of 21 players was being read out to us. By the time the eighteenth name was read I blanked out.” “I couldn’t sleep the whole night. It was like a nightmare to me. I only began to recover myself after I called my dad the next day to inform him I had been dropped. Moffi added that his father encouraged him telling him that disappointments are part of life and reminded him that top players in Nigeria like Jay Jay Okocha, Sunday Oliseh and others never represented the country at the Under 17 World Cup. “What he said took me unawares and gave me reassurance. He told me he was very proud of me to have made the provisional list of 35 players that was initially sent to FIFA and that going to the Under 17 World Cup was only one of the platforms for exposing one’s talent to the football world. “He said even our Under 17 coach Amuneke who became African Footballer of the year did not play at the U17 level.“ “That disappointment has toughened me and since then I take whatever comes my way as God’s perfect plan for me.” Greatest moments Moffi cites his time in Lithuania as one of the greatest moments in his career. He finished the top scorer for his club and won the most valuable player of year in his only year in the East European country. “That has to be the end of season award ceremony of my former club in Lithuania, FK Riteriai. I won the Highest Goal Scorer Award, Most Valuable Player of the Year Award. “In the league itself I was in the League Team of the Week nine times, Best player of the Month twice and was in the League Team of the Season.” Family Moffi comes from a family of six who all supported his decision to take up football as a career. His father was an ex-footballer that played for Enugu Rangers amongst other local clubs in the 80s and is now a lawyer based in Calabar. Moffi’s mother is an administrator in the civil service and he has three brothers. “My father is a lawyer and my mother an administrator. “I have two elder brothers and a younger one. My eldest brother has a Master’s degree in Human Resource Management from Manchester and my immediate elder brother is Medical doctor.” “He studied in Russia while my younger one is a Law student. I am the odd one out. “My brothers jokingly call me a school dropout. We all were born and raised in Calabar but we are from Ogoja. Every member of the family is in full support of my taking to football as a career.”