Kano University of Science and Technology (KUST), Wudil, has debunked claims by the institution’s Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) that the university was underfunded. ASUU Chairman Comrade Muhammad Gaya and Secretary Comrade Murtala Muhammad, had said the persistent underfunding of the institution was hindering its development. The union regretted that the government had virtually pushed the provision of needed infrastructure to the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFUND). It also said desperate attempts by the university administration to hike undergraduate registration fees could not be properly accounted for, as externally audited reports had not presented to the Council in the last few years. It said: “Poor funding of the university has affected its running, resulting in inadequate offices and laboratories, especially in newly-established departments, poor condition of students’ hostels, among others. Read Also: ASUU strike paralyses academic activities at Kano University “The union rejects the proposed hike in registration fees. The union is also displeased with the non-payment of staff entitlements, some of which have lingered since the 2009-2010 season. The union, therefore, resolved to draw the government’s attention to the university’s situation. We urge the administration to settle all outstanding claims of staff, on or before March 7, to avoid disruption of the academic calendar and in the interest of peace and harmony. “The union should not be blamed for any unpalatable action it takes after the deadline.” But the university’s Head of Information and Public Relations Unit, Sa’idu Nayaya, denied ASUU’s claims. He urged the lecturers to join hands for the university’s growth instead of maligning it. He said: “The government, as proprietor of the university, has been releasing funds, including the provision of N774 million for accreditation; prompt payment of salaries and wages amounting to N2.6 billion annually. It also undertook other development projects – both academic and physical. “On claims that the university solely depends on TETFund for its infrastructure, we want to note that TETFund was established to undertake such mandate – to support tertiary education in all public institutions. The university administration should be appreciated for its zeal in attracting high impact, special interventions. “The university administration has paid most of the claims of ASUU members on availability of funds. For instance, over N198 million has been paid as Post-Graduate Research Grant to academic staff (paid fully on January 27); N200 million as hazard allowance for non-teaching staff. “On attempts to increase registration fees, we would like to state that fees are not static, but subject to revision. As such, the university Senate approved an upward review between N21,500 and N23,200, which is the lowest when compared to other universities.”