  Rivers state executive Council led by Governor Nyesom Wike has warned the Minister of State for Petroleum, Timipre Sylva and the National Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole against any further attacks on Justice Mary Odili and her family. Thugs suspected to be supporters of the APC recently attacked the Abuja residence of Former Governor of the state, Dr. Peter Odili and his wife shortly after the Supreme Court Judgement that disqualified Bayelsa state APC governorship elect, David Lyon and his deputy and leading to the swearing-in of the PDP candidate at the poll, Douye Diri as the authentic Governor of the state, last Friday. Members of the state executive council at their council meeting Wednesday noted that the attack must not be unconnected with the Judgement, suspecting the two APC chieftains (Sylva and Oshiomhole), as masterminds. They condemned the attacks and said that the state will hold the duo responsible should anything happen to the Supreme Court Judge or any member of her family, including her husband, Dr. Odili, stressing that enough is enough. In a communique they issued after the meeting Wednesday in Port Harcourt, and signed by the State Commissioner for Information and Communication, Paulinus Nsirim the members said, “That after careful review of the recent attack on the residence of Former Dr. Peter Odili after the nullification of the APC’s former governorship election, David Lyon, the state executive council has resolved as follows, “That the Rivers State Executive Council observed that the Federal Government seems not to show interest in the sponsored threats to the lives of Dr Peter Odili and members of his family. “That the Rivers State Executive Council condemns the barricading of the residence of Dr Peter Odili at Maitama, Abuja by sponsored thugs of the All Progressives Congress (APC). “That the Rivers State Executive Council wondered why Dr Peter Odili’s family should be singled out for the unwarranted attack, when the judgment that ousted David Lyon as Governor of Bayelsa State was a unanimous decision of a five-member panel of Supreme Court Justices.” The document further states, “That Rivers State Government will hold Timipre Sylva and Adams Oshiomhole responsible if anything happens to Dr Peter Odili and members of his family. “That the Rivers State Executive Council noted that in the past Rivers State suffered unfavourable Judicial Pronouncements and never resorted to self-help as being promoted by APC Leaders in the case of Bayelsa State. “That the Rivers State Government will employ all legal means to protect Dr Peter Odili and members of his family. “That the Rivers State Government will protect Rivers State Indigenes who are serving as Federal and State Judicial officers. “That the Rivers State Government warns that should this harassment and intimidation continue, it will have no alternative than to retaliate. “That the Rivers State Government will defend the lives and property of Rivers people at all times. “Enough is enough,” They warned. 