 SOME persons who were allegedly kidnapped last year by three soldiers and freed after ransom was paid have cried out over the whereabouts of their abductors. The victims said they have waited patiently for the soldiers to be arraigned before the court of law but what they were told was that their abductors might have escaped from custody. The three soldiers identified as Corporal Collins Ameh 13NA/70/4960 of 3 Division, Jos; Lance Corporal Balogun Taiwo 13/NA/69/0369 of 35 Battalion, Katsina; and Private Evans Isibor 15/NA/73/1529 of the Artillery Brigade, Owerri on special duty in Maiduguri, Borno State were arrested last November for kidnapping and armed robbery. Corporals Ameh and Balogun were alleged to have kidnapped one Mr Joseph Otono and snatched his Toyota Voltron car. Otono was released after ransom was paid by his relatives The two soldiers were arrested by the police in Ehor, headquarters of Uhunmwode Local Government Area allegedly on their way to Lagos to sell the car. They were also alleged to have kidnapped a classroom teacher in Fugar, Mrs Catherine Izuagie on September 9, 2019 and was released after ransom was collected. Private Isibor who was posted to Maiduguri, capital of Bornu State, to combat insurgency was alleged to have kidnapped one Mohammed Hassan in Agenebode, Etsako East Local Government Area of Edo State on October 14, 2019. After they were paraded before newsmen in November last year, they were said to have been handed over to the 4 Brigade headquarters of the Nigerian Army in Benin City. In a chat with Hassan in Benin City, he said it was bad that the people that left him for dead have escaped from custody. Hassan said he was left inside the bush to die after the soldiers collected his ATM card. He said the soldiers were supposed to undergo military administrative action afterwhich they would be returned to the police for prosecution. “It is more than three months now and we are not hearing anything. Police said the suspects are still with the Army but we learnt that they have escaped. Edo police spokesman Chidi Nwabuzor said the suspects were handed over to the Army to be returned to the police. “It is only from you people (the press) we hear they have escaped. We are still waiting for the Army.” 