Kelvin Osa – Okunbor Intervention Lead, Lagos Waterways, Mr. Kayode Khalidson has called on the State Government to embrace the integrated multi – modal transport system as part of strategies to address the increasing population, inadequate infrastructure and pressure on existing transport modes. Khalidson said Lagos needs to deepen its integrated transport system to address issues related to pressure on rapid urban expansion, high population density, overstretched municipal services and environmental issues. Speaking to The Nation in Lagos, he said an intervention led by a consortium Adams Smith International and the United Kingdom Government for Future Cities Nigeria was supporting transport and urban development in Lagos and Ogun State in improving transportation, capacity building, urban planning, renewal and inland water transport. “The Future Cities Nigeria programme, he said is implemented by a consortium led by Adam Smith International in association with Infrastructure Delivery International , Thames Clippers and Becket Rankine. As local partners of the project, Khalidson said the firms were carrying out studies on targeted interventions to improve transport systems in Lagos and Ogun States. He said the firms were also carrying out full business cases for the licensing of operators of ferry, boat and freight operators. Khalidson said the firms were designing a transportation and urban master plan for the Ogun State capital, Abeokuta. He said the bodies have been working with Lagos State Government to deepen water transportation in the state. The project, he said had become imperative in view of recent developments in the transportation sector in the state by reducing travel time and ease of movement. The expert described the launch of some ferry boats by Lagos State Government as appropriate intervention needed critical to changing travel narrative in the mega city. He described the Future City Project, as an United Kingdom initiative target at some developing countries to improve urban planning and transportation. Khalidson said : ” In Lagos our brief is carry out outline and full business cases for the licensing of four ferry routes and guidelines for urban renewal for Lagos State and in Ogun State, we developing a new transport policy in Abeokuta. “We are also carrying out full transport mater plan for Abeokuta . We are also working with an agency in Lagos on how to improve the waterways transportation. The whole idea is to ease the burden of residents of the city and the ease of their journey, improve security, save travel time” He said Lagos and Ogun were lucky to be selected among 19 cities in 10 countries to benefit from the global initiative. He said the consortium will carry out ranking and prioritization on 10 out of the 19 routes operated by Lagos Waterways and select four most viable routes. He said the group will license operators on the selected four routes to operators after the extent of competition has been determined. He said: “After the selection, this will give us the opportunity to pick the most financially viable operators and carry out pre- feasibility studies and licensing of the operators, which should attract a blend of local and international operators.” On ways to bridge infrastructural gaps in water transport value chain in Lagos, Khalidson said the group will identify terminals that need upgrade within the 18 months’ timeline given to conclude its task. He said: “We are looking at utilizing existing terminal facilities, in any areas where we notice gaps; we will recommend steps to be taken.” Khalidson said the consortium will also focus on freight component of water transportation saying emphasis on that value chain will assist to de-congest Lagos of trailers and take freight out of the roads into water. He spoke of plans to streamline ferry and freight routes along the waterways. Describing the project as public private sector participation, he said the most successful outcome of their work is to license ferry operators as full manifestation of public private sector participation. He said: “We are looking at licensing ferry operators and concession a terminal operator , that will be a tremendous success. Our United Kingdom partners are already working on this.” On multi – modal transportation in Lagos, Khalidson said since 2009, efforts have been on through the development of strategic master plan to achieve the feat for Lagos State. The plan, he said has integration of all modes of transport at the heart of it , saying doing such will facilitate the seamless movement of many people from one mode of transport to another. He said: ” Part of the study we carried out on Lagos is integration, which was part of the team’s work .The key thing that will facilitate this is to fix the roads that lead to the terminal. More importantly the bus rapid transport and non-motorized transport to walk or either cycle to the terminal. The rail project will be important, once it comes on stream.