By Praise Olowe  The World Health Organisation (WHO) has stated no fewer than 80,000 Nigerians die from various forms of cancer annually. On World Cancer Day celebrated every February 4, here are prominent Nigerians who have died of different forms of cancer: (1) President Umaru Yar’Adua  Former President Umaru Yar’Adua fell victim of the disease in May 2010 after years of battling with it. The ailment kept him away from his constitutional duties for a long period of time (2) Dr. Olusola Saraki  Second Republic Senate Leader, Dr. Olusola Saraki, also died of cancer as confirmed by his youngest son, Olaolu, who admitted that political giant of Kwara politics “battled cancer for about five years” before he breathed his last on November 14, 2012. (3) Maryam Babangida  Maryam Babangida, wife of former military President Ibrahim Babangida, also had her life cut short by the dreaded disease on December 27, 2009. She had to leave behind her Better Life Programme for Rural Women which launched many co-operatives, cottage industries, farms and gardens, shops and markets, women’s centres and social welfare programmes. (4) Gani Fawehinmi  The doggedness with which renowned activist and social crusader, Gani Fawehinmi fought successive and oppressive military dictators was not enough to survive the monster called cancer. He died on September 5, 2009, of lung cancer. (5) Yinka Craig  For two years, ace broadcaster, Yinka Craig, who made his name with Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) battled to stay alive until September 23, 2008, when he died at the Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, United States of America. He received treatment for cancer of the immune system. (6) Yusuf Jibo Yusuf Jibo, former Zonal Director of the Nigeria Television Authority (NTA), also died of colon cancer in December, 2010. (7) Sonny Okosun  For Sonny Okosun, one of greatest musicians, the music stopped playing when he died on May 24, 2008, at 61 in the United States after a prolonged battle with cancer. He had gone to seek medical advice on his deteriorating health. (8) Clara Oshiomhole  Clara, the wife of the Chairman of the All Progressives Party (APC), Adam Oshiomole was also said to have died of cancer on December 8, 2010, eleven days to her daughter’s wedding.