The first part of this interview was published last Sunday  You are referring to the issue of using security vote to pay salaries? No! no! no!  It goes beyond that. Just like President Muhammadu Buhari asked the state governors: for those of you state governors owing workers their salaries, how do you sleep when you and your family members in Government House are well fed and you are aware that you have not paid your workers, who have family dependants, their salaries for as long as one year? What was their response? Did they release funds? Did they simply play left-right wing politics with it? The right wing leader will say I will rather pay a contractor two billion naira contract debt instead of paying thirty thousand naira salary. So he chooses to owe salaries. That in itself is a statement of his values. So, what Hope has just done is to say between all the exigencies which the security vote represents, I think that in terms of priority, I cannot this month allow these people to accept the reality of taking 70 percent of a salary, which in the first instance is arguable if it can take the people home. At a time people are agitating for salary increment, implementation of new minimum wage and other adjustments, you find that even the old salary only 70 percent of it was being paid every month both by the former governor and the immediate one that Hope has replaced. It is about values. I do argue and it is a fact that government is about management of a set of biases. Governance is not value free; it is value driven. It is about bias. You consciously settle for policy choices which will favour a certain class of people and some other person, to that extent, will pay for the consequences of that policy. So, there are winners and losers. Who you seek to win as the outcome of that policy is a reflection of your values. For example when I was governor of Edo State, I consciously told the people that I will focus on my infrastructural project, particularly the urban renewal policy on the most deprived area of Benin City, not the so-called Government Reserved Area, where one person occupy an acre of land. I cannot recall constructing any major road in the GRA. I concentrated on the high density areas where about 20 people occupy a five bedroom building. All the street lights that I introduced in Benin, I did not put one in GRA. It’s a matter of priority. May be if I were to be governor forever I may come back to the GRA but knowing that I had only eight years I had to ask myself, who do I favour. I chose to favour the downtrodden.  I did the same in the choice of things we imposed taxes on. It reflected my bias. I had this conversation with someone who said the present government of Lagos State should tar roads in Ikoyi Area since the people there pay higher tax, but I told him that it is the commoners that work for them, who are more in number, that actually need more roads in Mushin. So, it is actually a matter of values Yes, it is all about values. But there is also what is called rewarding your shareholders. Who voted? The vote from Mushin if they are happy will far outweigh that of Ikoyi. So, a smart governor will take care of the area the votes are coming from. If you plant a flower, soon you will find out that it would bend towards the area the sunlight is coming. Governance is about bias but not in terms of Nigerian destructive primordial sentiments. Here we leave class issues and emphasise North, South, West, East, Christian, Muslim sentiments. These are the biases that Nigerians talk about, but the real bias, the class bias, is what excites me. My pain today is that our political conversations do not cover issues like this. When the northerners speak, you will think that the North is a class; when the South-west speaks, you will think that Southwest is a class. But within the Southwest, there are oppressors and there are huge army of the poor, deprived hungry people. When Ohanaeze speaks, you can see that it is not speaking for the forgotten, hungry, deprived man pushing wheelbarrow in Onitsha main market. You see the real Igbo oppressor oppressing fellow Igbo. When you get to what I call the new majority, the coalition of all minority groups, in each state within these minorities, some are more minor than others. But the political elites, whether cleverly or thoughtlessly, refuse to put these issues on the table. That is why, increasingly, the contestations centre around primordial sentiments which, as far as I am concerned, are dysfunctional. Your counterpart in PDP, Uche Secondus and others went to the embassies of the United Kingdom and the United States to ask President Buhari to resign and for them to intervene by advising our president to govern properly. What do you think they want to achieve by that? Well, they are yet to overcome the inferiority complex of people who were born in a former colony, the colonial mentality. Secondus still sees the British as the supervisor of Nigeria; the same thing for the Americans. That is the only reason he would run to them and say please my supervisor come and intervene. There is no better time for them to have done self- examination if they have the challenges we do have.  First, they are the least competent people to talk about whether we have a biased judiciary because they laid the foundation for all the challenges we are facing today as I explained to you earlier here concerning Supreme Court ruling in the past which awarded three oil-producing states to PDP. And it is the same PDP talking about one state that they didn’t even win and I have not seen any of them and their hired commentators and writers dismissing the argument that Ihedioha did not score one-quarter of the votes cast in up to two-third of the local governments. It is so obvious that it was a fraud on the part of INEC, a fraud sustained by the tribunal, a fraud upheld through a split judgment by the Court of Appeal and that mischief was corrected by the Supreme Court. But people feel that the election was rigged and that as it stands now it seems it is the person that rigged more cleverly that wins finally? As they say, once a matter goes to court, the burden of the judge is to make pronouncement on the bases of the facts before him rather than on all the facts relevant to the matter. The only area that worries me is when I see tension between facts and law. For example, it was for me so irritating that so much time was expended arguing whether or not President Buhari had a secondary school certificate and you spent huge tax payers’ money to inquire into the case up to the Supreme Court.  What I believe should be of interest to an average Nigerian is whether Buhari won majority of the lawful votes cast. There is also the issue of how the president’s name is spelt. Do you think in a serious democracy a judicial system, the court will tolerate wasting its time; not that there is another candidate that came out to say I am the one that was voted for, my name is Muhamadu not Mohammed. Is it not clear that the main issue here is who won the election? So this matter can only come up if another candidate had said there is a case of impersonation, I am the person that won the election. But there is no such case. Why will our judicial system waste such valuable time, subjecting judges to go into irrelevant authorities to ascertain whether Muhammadu and Muhammad mean the same thing or in my case whether Aliu or Aliyu meant the same thing? The real issue is who won this election? There are many things that need to be eliminated in our judicial system so that our judicial officers are not over worked unnecessarily. That was like what happened when somebody went to court in Bayelsa State over someone’s title. Is like the name of our National leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, (sorry I have to give a name, but I am sure he will understand). If our leader, for example, fills INEC form and say “Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu,” and then another time he just writes “Bola Ahmed Tinubu” and then someone goes to court and say no, these are two different people. That was the kind of case we had in Bayelsa; that the man’s traditional title, which he added subsequently to his name; they now said that he was not bearing this name before he became a title holder because it sounded as if it was part of his name. Most people who do not know our national leader before, say people that are 10 years or 15 years old may actually think that his name is Asiwaju; in fact, most people just call him Asiwaju. This was what happened in Bayelsa and a court of law, presided over by people who know the truth, will be citing authorities relevant and irrelevant. Those are the kind of things I think the court should eliminate. The main issue should be who won the election not certificates or how a name was spelt. In history, the real great statesmen, were they professors? Leadership ability is different from intellectual paper qualification. We have two contrasting stories; we have Kogi and we have Bayelsa. People believe that APC won Bayelsa but people are still asking questions about Kogi. You attended the inauguration of Kogi State governor for a second term, can APC explain what made the people to vote for a man who owed salaries for so many months and used intimidation mainly to win the election.  The issue of Bayelsa, I am happy you acknowledged it. Actually, that is the one that should have bothered people more. But there is something important about Bayelsa election that should have been amplified and celebrated; may be two or three issues. The first is that for the first time since 1999 an election was held in Bayelsa without a single gunshot fired. So, it is possible for someone to win and lose election in Bayelsa without gunshot; without anybody being hospitalised. But Governor Dickson talked about someone being hospitalised, he accused APC of being involved in violence Forget about Dickson. What do you expect from someone that lost? The only violence that was recorded, to the best of knowledge, was an intra-PDP fighting two or three days before the election. But you know Dickson could not overcome the pain of defeat. He has to learn to live with it. Number two, it was for me of interest that if you are familiar about the forces that control the politics of the state, it was more of a humble man against a less humble. It showed that the electorates can shift their allegiance from the party to the individual. It also shows a clear improvement to political awareness and a clear signal to politicians that a political party may be favoured in a state but if it fields a candidate that is not acceptable and the other party fields a candidate that is has more electoral appeal to the majority of the common people, that the ruling party may suffer a humiliating defeat. That was what happened in Bayelsa.  Those votes clearly were cross-party divide. For me, there were very positive interesting lesson to learn and to humble every political office holder. That yes, you may be the executive governor, but execute with wisdom because there is a rainy day and don’t yet laugh at the crocodile because you don’t know where the next river is. That is what happened in Bayelsa. Now, I am surprised you said people thought we would not have won Kogi because the governor was not paying salaries. First, that is not correct. The governor, like most of the governors, had huge challenges in paying salaries. But to start with, he inherited a state that owed more than one and half years salaries as at the time he took over from the PDP government. Captain Wada owed his workers and it was Wada that was succeeded by Yahaya Bello. But the fact that he inherited that debt does not mean he does not carry the pain to inherit the liability. But he didn’t do anything to improve it. Now, that was at the beginning. You must bring your narrative to a conclusion.  By the time the election took place the governor had managed to source resources to clear up all the salary arrears, such that he even paid the salaries of the month before the month ended. So, he has put the issue of salary payment behind him. But let me ask you, how did Governor Ortom, my dear PDP friend from Benue win re-election in the face of owing more than nine months’ salary arrears? And I can point out a number of states where the governors owe salaries and surprisingly even workers voted for them. One governor that if salary payment would give him perpetual tenure is the one they call Mr Alert. He is the Plateau State governor. Though he inherited arrears of unpaid salaries from his predecessor, Jang, he not only cleared the arrears but also restored the culture of paying salaries promptly before the end of the month and today Plateau people know him as Mr Alert. Otherwise, many state governors got re-elected in spite of salary payment burden. You see, this thing you call propaganda; some governors are good at polishing the same old plate and you call them gold while others are just being misrepresented. Yahaya was not favoured by the media. I am not saying everything was perfect but if you just study the media narrative, you will want to bye-pass Kogi but that is not true. He has for example paid January salaries and January salaries are the most difficult. Don’t ask me how I know. I was a worker. The major people that voted for him were workers who are praying that what happened to the state during Wada’s tenure will never happen again. But people are saying that so many things went wrong and that APC government in the centre simply gave him money to win the election. But there were real violence in the election, especially the burning down of that woman Salome, without the government showing enough empathy even in the media. They said that was emblematic of the violence in the election and how he won. Really, I don’t want to say so much about an issue I do not have all the facts but what I can say is that the situation in Kogi was not exactly the way it was reported.   For example, we had primaries there and it is one of those few states where after the primaries those who lost put it behind them after we had engaged them and they all worked with the governor without exception. All of that helped. Of course there are other undercurrents. You do not make one-sided analysis in order to have a clear picture of everything. You are only looking at the media perception, which, with respect I believe was substantially exaggerated in the case of Kogi. But what you may not know or you have probably not adverted your mind to is the fact that the main opposition, PDP, had its own internal challenges that the candidate that was declared rigged the election and that the favoured candidate was rigged out. If I tell you the story of how that rigging was done, it was so crude that you will agree that, even by the devil’s standard, it was crude. The result was that the leader of a well-established political family Idris Ibrahim said he had retired from politics, which means that he would not put his huge electoral value for PDP. Of course you can see that as a result of that, not a few electorates will refuse to vote for PDP because they felt offended that PDP imposed an unwanted candidate on them. If you take that into account and recognise that choice is not absolute, it is relative. It is comparing one thing to another. So, whatever that was the challenge of APC, the PDP had much more. Two, the people asked themselves what they actually got under the previous PDP government of Captain Wada. They cannot find it. So, you will need a holistic view to really analyse the Kogi matter. PDP was also substantially weak because of the way it handled its primary election.