More than 15 persons have been killed since Monday February 17 in renewed cult war across Edo State, The Nation has learnt. It was gathered that the killings were to mark the one year anniversary of the killing of two rival leaders of Aye and Eiye confraternities. Eight persons were killed on Tuesday at Nomayo Junction, Aifuwa and Three House areas along Upper Sakponba Road in Ikpoba-Okha Local Government Area. Witnesses described the scene as a war theatre. One man said over 30 persons hid inside his shop at Three House Junction while the cult boys were shooting intermittently. At the notorious Third Junction, four persons were killed while others were killed in different parts of the state. It was gathered that some suspects arrested in connection with last year’s killings, especially two leaders of Eiye and Aye confraternities, were released last month. Policemen were later seen at Third Junction arresting suspected cultists but residents said they were arresting innocent traders and artisans. Police spokesman Chidi Nwabuzor said he was yet to be briefed on the cult killings, adding that the police have a right to randomly arrest people within the vicinity of crime, release the innocent and prosecute suspects. The state government has decried the increase in cult-related killings in the state. In a statement on Thursday, Mr Crusoe Osagie, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, said the state government would not condone any act of violence. He said that anyone who used delinquent youths to cause mayhem in the state would not be spared. Osagie said it had become expedient to sound a note of warning to persons disrupting public peace and security in the state. He noted that the government had directed security agencies in the state to bring violators to book. “We are working closely with the Nigeria Police Force and other relevant security agencies in the state to arrest the rise in cult clashes. “We assure that these clashes will be contained,” he said. Osagie appealed to parents to keep a close eye on their wards and children and monitor their whereabouts so they would not be used to do the bidding of desperate persons.