By Damian Duruiheoma, Owerri Former Secretary to the Government of Imo State, Chief Cosmas Iwu, was on Monday inaugurated as the new scribe of the state government. He was inaugurated alongside Barr. Cyprain Akaolisa and Barr. Nnamdi Anyaehie as the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice and Chief of Staff to the Governor respectively. Administering oath of office on the new SSG and others at the Government House, Owerri, Governor Hope Uzodinma pledged to make state a model among her counterparts as a way of repaying the people of the state for the confidence and trust they have reposed in him since he assumed office. Uzodinma assured that his administration would foster prosperity and development of the State. While promising that he would implement to the letter his three cardinal points of reconstruction, rehabilitation and recovery, the Governor disclosed that his administration would ensure that the greater good of the people of the state, would at all times take priority position. On the calibre of people he has brought to serve, Uzodinma said: “I had earlier indicated that the bar for appointment into the state has been raised to the highest level, hence, only the best brains would serve in my administration and I am standing on this platform because Imo deserves the best.” The Governor charged the appointees to put on their thinking caps, get into the factory room and get the ball rolling, adding that “to whom much is given, much is expected.” He further advised: “My brothers, today you are appointed to serve Imo people, do not disappoint because the expectations are very high. The entire Imo State is your constituency; therefore, you must do justice to all manner of men regardless of tribe or creed. Imo is one and belongs to all of us.” Responding on behalf of the appointees, the SSG thanked Governor Uzodinma for finding them worthy to serve and pledged their undiluted support, loyalty and commitment to his administration to achieve its lofty ideals. Chief Iwu promised that they will abide by the general principles and policy direction of the present administration geared towards fostering prosperity, security and development of Imo State. He charged Imo people to continue praying for the new administration, stressing, “Without God Hope Uzodinma wouldn’t have been Governor, God gives power and all power belongs to God.”