By Abdulwaheed Sofiullahi The issue of Maryam Sanda who, a fortnight ago, was sentenced to death by hanging by the Supreme Court for killing her husband Bilyamin Bello, has continued to generate arguments on both the traditional and social media.  However, before you could also lash her, why don’t you ask yourself how the journey between Sanda and Bello began. Despite that they were both from privileged background, do we think Maryam would have willingly promised her husband a journey of no return? Like others, they had hoped for a life of bliss when they said ‘yes’ to each other. They once ate and smiled together in love before life brought into their home suspicion and pessimism. It was amid a heated  argument, and Maryam, in a fit of rage, reportedly stabbed her husband in the neck while in his sleep on November 19, 2017. Yet, like others, their family was once a peal of laughter. They once ate, smiled with love until life showed them its other dimension. They were blessed with a child (some say two ). However, with the situation of things, who would claim them since with the present scenario, the child (children) automatically becomes orphan. Evidently, it’s right and acceptable when Sanda was charged with ‘causing brutal and murderous anguish’. She was accused of stabbing her husband to death with a broken bottle. It’s not new in Nigeria and the world over, how the lives of young people have been affected through domestic violence. Domestic violence is an uncommon vice in this common world. Many people need to be made to adapt and endure with other human beings alike. The problem is that the consequence of domestic violence as in Sanda’s case is more detrimental to the child than the parents. Regardless of who chooses to act like a biological mother to the orphan, things would never be the same. And to the child they left behind, how would it sound to her that her father was killed by her mother and the court slammed her with ‘death by hanging’?. As a result of this abuse, the child may experience physical disabilities, aggression, mental illness or a poor ability to create smooth and interacting relationship. We shouldn’t be insensitive to protecting the younger ones who are victims of circumstances. Even though the judge may have been fair enough by following the dictates of the law, the  negative effect is that, via that judgment, an orphan has just been created.