 WHAT could have made a final year student of the University of Calabar (UNICAL) to commit suicide? That is the question students of UNICAL keep asking over the death of their colleague-Maxwell Lucky Enudi, who took his life. The deceased, a final year undergraduate of Zoology and Environmental Biology, was preparing to defend his project when the tragic incident occurred. An indigene of Delta State, the deceased was a former class representative of his department. The incident occurred at Ekpo Abasi in Calabar South Local Government Area where sympathisers found Enudi lay lifeless after taking ‘sniper’, a poisonous substance last Tuesday, CAMPUSLIFE learnt. However, management and students are discussing the matter in hushed tones, with the former not wanting to speak much on the matter. Enudi’s former Head of Department Dr Nta Nta, also repeatedly turned down interview on the deceased. When contacted via a telephone, the Chairman of the UNIUYO’s Board of Media and Community Relations, Dr Joseph Ekpang, confirmed the incident, describing it as ‘regrettable’. Similarly, Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Irene Ugbo, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), also confirmed the incident to our reporters. He assured that investigation was ongoing. An eyewitness, who identified herself as Violet Boniface, told CAMPUSLIFE that Enudi’s action might not be unconnected with some stress he was going through in his project. She said: “Just as with other cases of suicide recorded among students over the previous months, Maxwell was said to have carried out the act by drinking ‘sniper’. Violet continued: “It is rumoured in school that Maxwell’s action had something to do with academic issues. “It is so painful, after all the aluta struggle. It is unfortunate as he chose to be one of the numerous young persons who have opted for suicide as a way of ending depression he had battled for months.” Some of his colleagues who spoke with CAMPUSLIFE described the deceased as funny, very intelligent and smart who would be solely missed. Enudi’s classmate and confidant Emmanuel Idiong told CAMPUSLIFE that Maxwell did not show any sign of depression. “He was our Class Rep. He was a hardworking and a cheerful guy. I can’t believe he took his life after all the stress in school,” said Idiong. Edoho Tayo, another classmate and friend of the deceased, said she spoke with the deceased on phone a day before the suicide, noting that he never showed any sign of depression or sickness. “Max’s death is still a shock to me,” Edoho noted. “I never knew that speaking with him at 10:42 am, a day before the incident was the last time I was going to talk to him. He only complained about his project and allergies on his skin and I assured him that everything would be fine,” she added. Friends, colleagues and sympathisers gave their tributes on Maxwell’s Facebook timeline. A sympathiser Cobham Cobski wrote: “Maxwell Lucky Gone! Erased from the journey of life by himself and for himself, Cobham said. “So, you brought sniper from Lagos and travelled down to Calabar to end your life?  After visiting school that day, gisting with your friends? You took the dark tunnel? Not even leaving a note behind man? “How can I fathom having to put on a black attire for the Black Man that always joyfully sang the Black Man’s song – Timaya’s song: “I can’t kill myself” because he found a way to do the opposite. I truly lack words to express myself. Rest in peace, my friend. I’ll miss u. Adieu Maxxy”. Fred Lawrence also posted: “Chai, what a wicked world. Can’t believe that u left us soon. My brother from another mother, my best friend ever. Brother, why you now? We love you but God loves you most. Hard to type RIP.” Yet, another friend, David Ibok, also sent his condolences online. “Each time I sit, walk or go about with my normal chores, something just keeps popping up in my head, So truly MAXY is dead?” Ibok asked rather rethorically. “I wish we weren’t that close, so I wouldn’t have felt the loss … R.I.P BRO only God knows why you decided to pull the plug,” he added. Similarly, another poster Ogodo Francis, lent his voice. “If there’s any feeling worse than being sad, that’s how I’m feeling right now.” “I never thought of wishing you this; but why? UNICAL was worth staying because of you. RIP Maxwell Lucky (Warri boy)”. Another concerned student, Charlie Oyama, posted thus: “So, Maxwell Lucky is truly gone? Really, I can’t stop crying. I pray God have mercy on your soul and give it eternal rest. I will forever miss you dude. RIP bro”. Maxwell remains has since been buried at his home town in Warri South Local Government Area, Delta State.