 A middle-aged man simply identified as Isah Azeez  a.k.a. Alajase was murdered on Monday following a fracas that broke out between supporters of the ruling Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP) and the All Progressive Congress (APC) over the control of local government administration in Oyo State . No fewer than 10 people were said to have sustained injuries. The injured, it was learnt, are recuperating in an undisclosed medical facility in Ogbomoso. On Sunday, Police Commissioner Mr. Shina Olukolu in a statement warned politicians that the command would not fold its arms and allow the state to relapse into bloodshed. Before the killing, the son of former governor Christopher Adebayo Alao-Akala,  Olamiju, who was among the elected council chairmen sacked by Governor Seyi Makinde, was allegedly attacked by hoodlums when he was on his way to resume office . According to eyewitness account, trouble started when the loyalists of both parties clashed at the Ogbomoso North Local Government Secretariat, after exchange of words. It was gathered that both the Caretaker Chairman appointed by Governor Makinde, Ibrahim Ajagbe and the sacked elected Chairman, Olamiju Alao- Akala, were at the council’s secretariat to resume when their supporters threw caution to the wind. Weapons such as cutlasses, knives, iron rods, charms and heavy objects were freely used in the bloody fight. The body of the victim, who was identified as a staunch supporter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), had been deposited in a morgue. Confirming the incident, Olukolu said the Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of Criminal Investigation Department (CID) is investigating the killing. Speaking through spokesman Olugbenga Fadeyi , a Superintendent of Police (SP), the police boss described the incident as unfortunate. He said:  “Today, at about 1230 hrs, two vehicles, one black Acura Legend and black Volkwagen Golf vehicles were coming from Iwofin towards Ogbomoso and around Surulere Local Government, Iresadu, there was an attack and the occupants of the vehicles fired and Isah Azeez, male, about 50 years, who sustained bullet injury and was rushed to Bowen University Teaching Hospital where he was later confirmed dead. “The crowd outside also fired at the vehicles and Dotun Somefun, male, an occupant of the Acura, was injured. He was taken to a hospital in Ogbomoso by his group. “He is in police custody assisting the detectives in their Investigation. The Deputy Commissioner (DC), in charge of the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) is investigating the matter.”