Damisi Ojo, Akure Ahead of the October 10 governorship election in Ondo state, the All Progressives Congress (APC) Youth and Women Forum for Good Governance has unanimously expressed their support for the 2016 APC primaries runner-up, Olusegun Abraham as candidate of the ruling party for the coming poll. Speaking during their monthly meeting in Akure, the Ondo State capital yesterday, the group’s chairman, Olotu Oluwatoba reiterated the need to have a compassionate technocrat who has contributed immensely to economic and infrastructural growth of the state to occupy the Alagbaka Government House in 2020. According to him, the endorsement of Abraham is coming in view of the need for him to expand and improve the people-oriented programmes he has been doing in his life to make Ondo State and Nigeria a better place to live in. Oluwatobi said Abraham has also been awarding multi-million naira scholarship to the less privileged students across the six local governments in Ondo North Senatorial District and beyond for almost 20 years and setting up of businesses for the needy across the entire 18 local government areas in the state. Also, the state secretary of the group, Mrs Olayinka Alasan, said ” Abraham is a blessing to Ondo State because he is the best among the aspirants who have so far shown interest for the 2020 governorship election in our state and we must support him. “We should not forget that he provided medical and financial assistance to many across the state. “As a progressive and a loyal party, he campaigned for late Adebayo Adefarati across 18 local government areas and rejected the position of Commissioner offered him by the late Governor because he wanted the grassroots politicians to grow. “He later left his multi-million naira business in Nigeria and abroad to help set up Adefarati’s government especially on industrialization and infrastructural development across the state”. Mrs. Olayinka reminded the citizenry of Ondo State how Abraham turned the fortunes of Owena Motel from loss to profit when he voluntarily served as the Chairman of the motel for four years between (1999-2003) without collecting salary or any allowance during the period. She assured the people of the State that Abraham would not disappoint them if given the mandate to serve the people.