The Federal Capital Territory is the administrative capital of the country. True. But also, there is a pulsing, steamy underlay that feeds the passion and the fancies of its inhabitants at night. VICTOR OLUWASEGUN and GBENGA OMOKHUNU expose the habits of Abuja’s night crawlers. For many in the city, it is difficult to draw a nexus between the peace and calmness in the day time and the hedonistic revelry that permeates the night atmosphere. And for those who love the night and its nebulous allure, they roam its precinct unfettered. They own the city once it is dusk; they dictate the dynamics. They are the lords of the night. They can be found at any of Abuja’s many gardens and parks or any of its numerous night clubs or pleasure houses. Places of highlife too many to highlight. They are drawn to bright lights, extreme darkness and all the shades in between. They are difficult to profile. Abuja seems to be trying its best to upstage Lagos and Port Harcourt as the city of choice when it comes to night life. It is not doing a bad job of it. A nightlife of wine, fish and women; beer, Suya and drunken laughter; of carelessness and amorous engagements. Serene in the daytime, syncopating at dusk. Things are happening in Abuja at night. And who are these people on the night shift? It is surprisingly a mixed multitude: Bankers, civil servants, factory workers and people in various private employment. Then, let’s not forget the scammers and the gigolos, the wannabes and ladies of easy virtue. Let’s take a drive down Aminu Kano crescent.  This road wears two caps; it sits atop the city commercially and hedonistically. It rules in the daytime and bubbles at night. It is to Abuja what Broad Street, Marina Street and Ozumba Mbadiwe are to Lagos. Only one other road can contend with it, and this is Adetokunbo Ademola Road. At flourish in Wuse, it is all full options, hence it enjoys a diverse set of customers. Game lovers could be seen seating around the various big screens shouting themselves hoarse to the swing of the matches, legs kicking impulsively as if moved by Bluetooth attached to the ongoing matches. Dome is elitist, but those who frequent the entertainment centre love it that way. It gives a kind of exclusivity that sets you apart and makes you happy with yourself that you have achieved. Expectedly, it’s a place of many beautiful lights and exquisite music, dotted with glamorous ladies of quiet dignity and silent pomposity. Orders are made in near whispers to barmen who are eager to please and wish to see you leave with a satisfied smile on your face and a determination to return at a later date. Much may be said about Dome, but nothing negative. Similarly, for those who want some more of the elitist treatment, Salamander Cafe offers the treat for the topmost flying executives in the city, hidden in a plush corner off Aminu Kano Crescent. It is immune to the frivolity of the city as it is sequestered in a world of it’s own, drawing its clientele from the cream de la cream of the city. Those who want to sate their lust are frequent at Aminu Kano Crescent, which provides a panorama of potential bedmates. Here, ladies of diverse shapes, sizes and backgrounds abound, nestling among flowers and trees on dark poorly- lit streets till the wee hours of the morning. It is the same with Adetokunbo Ademola Crescent, which hosts Cubana Lounge, other upscale restaurants and a high number of street food vendors who serve night crawlers till the early hours of the day. Here, flint-hearted ladies, who have commercialised sex haggle and bargain for appropriate prices for satisfaction. Men come mesmerised by the array of beauties embedded amidst the greens, pointing to and picking whom to take home for the night, shortime, sleep-overs or pull-over. Truly, it is virtually impossible to take in all that the city has to offer, but there are places you can find calm amidst the hustle and bustle. You can enjoy inner peace and tranquility without fear of robbery or molestation. Either visiting or residing in the city, there’s something for everybody if you’re willing to look. For those that want a different kind lot fun with no restriction, City Parks on Ademola Adetokunbo is the place to find them. You find that you’re not the first to get this idea because almost everyone is there before you, drawn like bees to honey, ants to sugar. That’s the City Park, loved by everyone mainly for its expansive grounds, multiple games and the tasty cuisines of its many restaurants.  Our place Only those acquinted with the geography of the FCT and seasoned nightstalkers are familiar with the hangout at the beginning of Lobito Crescent in Wuse. Nice, quiet and recommendable. Luxury can be ambiguous but when it comes to Dreams relaxation spot, it means making your expectations come true. Situated around Wuse, Abuja residents, as observed, find the place habitable for all. Dreams is a place where the high class always cool off. The place is always filled with activities of various sorts; even children find the place interesting to be.  Sky Bar Rooftop Lounge Quiet, romantic and private, particularly if you desire a top view of the entire capital city. If yes, the Sky Bar Rooftop Lounge is the ideal spot. You and your loved ones will be swept off your feet by the stunning view of the city with a very rich menu ranging from salads to foreign foods and an impressive selection of African dishes, good ambience and soothing music. It’s the perfect spot for couples to rekindle the fire of love.  Jazz and Blues spot This is a place where working class people love to relax. It is situated around Wuse Zone 3. Hanging out here is nice, especially for those that love quiet, romantic and private places. You and your loved ones will be swept off your feet when you visit. They have a very rich menu ranging from salads to foreign foods and an impressive selection of African dishes. Their service might not be as fast as your normal eatery, but you won’t even notice because you’ll be carried away by the ambience. They play the kind of music that soothes the soul. In all, this is the perfect spot for couples to rekindle the fire of love.  Abacha Barracks Mammy Market Whether cooked or barbecued fish, Abacha Fish Market is the place to be for fish lovers in and around Abuja. Drinks here are at very affordable rates. It’s the perfect rendezvous when you just want a casual evening hangout with friends. Located at Mogadishu Cantonment in Abacha Barracks along Karu/Nyanya Expressway, this is the most popular place for all kinds of fish cuisine. But for the faint-hearted who cannot stand the advent of dusk, parks close early and quite a number are available in the Capital City.  Millennium Park Millennium Park offers one of the best spots for a picnic in Abuja. Evenings are especially nice to enjoy the beautiful lights at the park. Parking is plentiful and the park’s entrance is off the Three Arms Zone road. Millennium Park offers visitors opportunity to savour the freedom and freshness that nature offers. At weekends, visitors can frequent the garden to relax. Carry along a food basket, a blanket and a bottle of wine; then you are set to have a time of your life at Millenium Park.  Jabi Lake/ Jabi Lake Mall Encircled in a sea of water and gorgeous scenery, Jabi Lake offers the closest to beach experience within the city. It offers amenities like speed boat rides, canoe rides as well as other water sports to shake off your aqua phobia while you are on board. Jabi Lake Mall is the most recent addition to the Jabi Lake environs, housing the Jabi Shoprite and others. It is situated on five hectares of land on the eastern shore of the Jabi Lake. While visiting Jabi Lake, stroll into the magnificent mall and feed your eyes with a feast of products available in stores all located within the mall. No doubt, nothing beats a day at Jabi Lake; it has the full package when it comes to having fun.