Not even the fear of coronavirus could dampen the collective enthusiasm as Nigerians celebrate with Chinese at the Spring Festival. VINCENT IKUOMOLA reports.  The Chinese New Year celebrations officially began on January 25 and ended February 4, 2020. The celebrations are marked with public holidays, which allowed the Chinese about seven days’ absence from work. In the Chinese tradition, the period is set aside as a time to honour household and “heavenly” deities as well as ancestors. It’s also a time to bring families together in feasting. Although the Chinese still join the rest of the world to celebrate January 1 as New Year’s Day, they still hold to the traditional Chinese New Year. The Chinese calendar, it was learnt, dates back to the early 14th Century when the Shang Dynasty was in power. The calendar wasn’t static, as it was reset according to which Emperor held power and varied from region to region. The Chinese New Year typically begins with the new moon that occurs between the end of January and the beginning of February. This was however stopped in 1949, under the rule of Chinese Communist Party leader, Moa Zedong, that forbade the celebration of the traditional Chinese New Year in preference for the Western Gregorian calendar. But in 1996, the Chinese reintroduced the traditional celebration called the “Spring Festival”. The 2020 edition was reported to be a quiet one back in China, due to the outbreak of coronavirus. But the same cannot be said of the celebrations in Abuja, as nationals turned out in their numbers to be part of this year’s celebrations. The Chinese calendar also includes the Chinese zodiac animals, which explained the theme for this year’s celebrations. It was themed “2020 year of the rat”. The other zodiac animals are the ox, tiger, rabbit, dragon, snake, horse, sheep, monkey, rooster, dog and pig. The Spring Festival has gained popularity in Abuja as the Chinese community enthralled a host of Abuja residents at a carnival-like celebration that brought other residents from all walks of life to the colourful cultural exhibition. It was the first of several events lined up for the celebrations. Among the audience were diplomats, top government officials, captains of industry, students amongst others. It was organised by the China Cultural Centre, in collaboration with the Chinese General Chamber of Commerce in Nigeria. It was all fun as the gathering was enthralled by a colourful exhibition of the Chinese culture and various Chinese and Nigerian art performances. A Chinese mascot was also on hand to provide entertainment with its acrobatic dance and displays. The dragon dance, which is often performed during Chinese New Year celebrations, was performed by nine Nigerian male dancers and a lady dancer who manipulated the long flexible figure of the dragon using a pole. There were also tea ceremonies, craft demonstration, under tree party with different Chinese dishes for consumption. There were different types of games and dancing competitions among secondary schools students invited for the festival. The students danced to current Nigerian music in vogue. The 2020 Spring Festival is expected to bring together extended families to feast. At this year’s celebrations, the Chinese embassy had also announced that food items would be donated to Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camps as part of the events to mark the fourth edition of the Chinese New Year Temple Fair in Abuja. In an interview, Chinese Ambassador in Nigeria, Zhou Pingjian, told journalists that the celebrations were to mark the beginning of good things to come.  “With a fresh start here, we are very confident and optimistic about the cooperation and friendship between our two great countries and our relations,” Pingjian said. The Director, China Cultural Centre, Mr Li Xuda, explained that the Chinese New Year boasts a history that dates back to 2000 BC. According to him, it marked the beginning of a new year on the traditional Chinese Lunar calendar. He maintained that 2020 was the year of the rat, which was the first in the 12-year cycle of Chinese Zodiac, symbolising a new beginning. Xuda added that it’s the year of the People’s Republic of China’s 8th decade, the year China lifted all rural residents living below the current poverty line and eliminated poverty in China. “Just like Christmas to the Christian world and Eid-el-Fitr to the Islamic world, the Chinese new year or lunar new year is the most celebrated traditional festival in China and Asian countries and among the Chinese communities worldwide. “The festival is usually referred to as the Spring Festival in China. Among the many customs, rituals and practices associated with this festival, the temple fair, a traditional cultural gathering of folks is outstanding,” he said. The Chinese cultural chief said that as part of the 2020 temple fair, there would be special donations session in which the Chamber of Commerce would utilise the temple fair as a platform to reach out to people in IDP camps. “The Chamber of Commerce will utilise the temple fair as an important platform of influence and attention, calling for donations among Chinese companies for IDP camps. It is themed ‘Cares in the festive season. There are plans to donate rice, noodles and oil to the helpless people in IDP camps with selfless assistance and devotion”, he further said. Mr Patrick Otoro, Creative Director, POP Theatre, described China as a very culturally rich country. He said the collaboration between the two countries would help to harness the diversity in both countries for a proper bilateral relationship when it comes to cultural affairs. “We hope that this relationship will create more jobs for Nigerian youths, especially in the performing arts sector and we are hoping to build strong ties with China. It will also further help us to strengthen the economic ties between the two countries,” he added. 