By Adeniyi Adewoyin  Following the demise of legendary Highlife musician, Dr Victor Olaiya on Wednesday February 12th, at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) after a brief illness, celebrities have started paying tribute to the late saxophonist. While some took to their social media page to pay their last respect, others spoke to The Nation. “It’s a massive loss. Dr. Olaiya was one of the original giants of African music and his legacy will endure”, says Efe Omorogbe, a music executive and 2face idibia’s manager. The Managing Director of Evergreen Music Company, Bimbo Esho wrote; “An enigma.. “An Icon of high repute,” she said. “He contributed immensely to Highlife music in Nigeria and Ghana. As you know filling in his shoes is going to be big. They were original musicians who had intense passion for what they did.” She also noted that the passing away of the veteran artiste will leave a big vacuum. “It is a big vacuum in the music industry. He was one of the last of the originals. He used his stadium hotel as a base to support the growth of music in Nigeria as many of the popular acts today got popular using His base.. He contributed immensely to the growth of highlife music in Nigeria and Ghana. Today his songs will continue to remain evergreen in our heart.” “He is an icon and a veteran who works in music transcends time and place. He will be sorely missed”, says actor, Tope Tedela. “Rest on papa. Legend. Pa Victor Olaiya”, wrote Woli Arole. 2baba who posted the picture of late Olaiya on stage in 2013, had the opportunity of doing a remix of Baby Jowo and received with much acclaim described the passing away of the musician as devastating. “Devastated by the news of your passing. Dr. Victor Olaiya – maestro, mentor, legend. Thanks for the beautiful music. Thanks for the inspiration. Blessed for the honour of sharing a mic and stage with you. Rest in peace baba.” Lola Maja also wrote, “May he rest in perfect peace. It was an honour working with him. May God Watch over His Soul and His Family.” Actor Charle Inojie was not left behind, “Oh dear! This is a dark day for African Music. May his soul rest in peace’, wrote actor Charles Inojie.  Obey also  in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos, while reacting to the death of the highlife music legend. He described Olaiya as a good leader, a great entertainer par excellence who had contributed meaningfully to the growth of Nigerian and African entertainment industry. Obey noted that Olaiya had laid good examples for other African musicians to emulate, having projected good morals in his musical works. According to him, late Olaiya remained focused, hardworking and dedicated to his career which the younger musicians must emulate to make remarkable progress in the industry NAN reports that Olaiya died at the age of 89, after a brief illness on Wednesday afternoon at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH). The “Baby Jowo” crooner retired from his musical career in 2017 and had some hit tracks like: “Omopupa”; “Jemila”; “So fun mi”; “Tina Meta”; “Pambotoriboto”; “Aigana”; “Odale Ore”; “Mo Fe Muyan”; Opataritius”; “Omolanke”, among others. “Nigeria has lost one of the African fathers of highlife music; he has contributed his quota to the development of the entertainment industry and I pray his soul rests in peace and God comforts his family. “Olaiya was a very serious-minded person who projected the highlife music throughout the entire world. “He is indeed a man to emulate. He later diverted to do business and he was a successful businessman also,” Obey said. Dr Victor Olaiya died at age 89.