 The Federal Government has assured Nigerians, especially those in Wuhan, that if and when the need arises, it will not hesitate to evacuate them from the provinces of China. The Minister of State for Health, Dr. Olorunibe Mamora, who made this known yesterday in Abuja, during a press briefing on resolutions reached by the Ministers of Health of the Economic Community of West African States on regional preparedness and response to the ongoing Covid-19 (Coronavirus) pandemic, said that it is monitoring the health of Nigerian citizens in China through the Nigerian Ambassador. According to him, “We are in touch with our Ambassador in China and the Chinese Ambassador to Nigeria is also in touch with the ministry, and we are getting information on the condition of Nigerians in Wuhan and we are monitoring the health of our citizens, if and when the need arises to evacuate them, we will do so but we don’t want a situation we create panic, this is not time for fear, this is not time for stigmatization, it is time for science. “Chinese government is testing everyone that is trying to leave China to ensure that they don’t go and spread the virus”. According to the minister, the ministers who met in Mali, emphasized the urgency of the current situation regarding Covid19 (Coronavirus), adding that following expert presentations on the global situation, the ministers resolved to strengthen coordination, communication, and collaboration among member states in preparedness for Covid-19 epidemic, including cross-border collaboration Also speaking at the briefing, Director General of the West Africa Health Organisation (WAHO), Prof. Stanley Okolo, observed that about 18 countries in West Africa have the laboratory capacity to test for the virus. Also a huge amount of money is needed to prepare the region against the virus. According to him, “The commitment from all member state at the Bamako meeting is that there should be regional costed plan that is strategic and they will support it to the best of their capacity. “We are learning from the lesson of Ebola. When it hit us, everybody accepted that the response was slow. Ultimately, the member states contributed to Ebola fund and we had partners bringing a lot of money. “This is not only the fight for government. The devastation of epidemic affects everybody. In our estimate, we think it will be in the region of $30m to $50m to be sure that we can create headway in term of critical personal protection, laboratory supplies and others and in term of communication and coordination across borders.” Prof. Okolo, who dismissed reports that the virus may not survive in African region, said that no country or region is immuned adding that though there might be seasonal variations, weather conditions may determine the rapidity of spread. He also explained that despite the spread of the coronavirus, not all countries had suspended international travel. He explained that self isolation did not mean that people would go home and sleep but to avoid close contact with loved ones. “In China where there is overwhelming epidemic, they have blanket suspension and quarantine but not all countries are suspending travelling from China. In West Africa, which I am responsible for, we have assessed this and that is one of the reason we are saying at the moment, those policies are appropriate and it depends on member state to decide on what policy to adopt. “There may be a time when we need to have blanket quarantine and to support other countries that we feel cannot do it alone and to ensure regional approach. The lesson of Ebola has thought us lesson,” he added.