The Lagos State Rapid Response Squad (RRS) on Wednesday warned pupils attending  schools  in Lagos State to guide against living the street lifestyle popularly called ” the Marlian”. Its Commander, Deputy Commissioner of Police, DCP Olatunji Disu, gave the warning at the “Security Day” Celebration organised by some law enforcement agencies for some secondary school pupils in the state. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that some of the secondary schools that participated in programme include: Ikeja Senior Grammar School, Ikeja Junior Secondary and Ikeja Junior College. According to the DCP, the ‘Marlian lifestyle is not decent enough to be copied by any responsible child. According to the him, this category of people are fond of wearing their trousers beneath their buttocks and always expose their underwears. ”The Marlians also change their natural hairs to dreadlocks, smoke illicit substances and live  very rough lifestyles  and other abnormal attitudes ,” Disu said. According to the the RRS boss, living such a lifestyle is abnormal. NAN reports that Afeez Fashola, a Nigerian singer with the Stage name ‘Naira Marley’, came up with the Marlian ideology. A marlian is any real follower of the controversial Naira Marley who must love a controversial lifestyle. Disu also advised the pupils not to join ‘Eiye’ and other illegal confraternities and secret cults no matter what they were offering prospective members. “If you join any secret and illegal cult, you are not sure of coming out alive. Moreover, it will affect the entire family system of its members. ”The cultists also depend heavily on the use of illicit drugs to drive them high. “This has contributed to the high rate of crime in the country,” he said. Disu also advised the pupils not to get immersed in the social media in order to face their studies without distractions. According to him, the adverse effects of the social media are vast than the benefits. “Some of you make new friends on the social media everyday. ”Through this activity alone, many students had gone missing or been kidnapped, please face your studies. “Be security wise and remember your parents need you to take care of them at their old ages,” he said. (NAN)