 KATSINA State Governor Aminu Masari, has prescribed education as the enduring remedy to the problem of banditry ravaging many states in the North. Masari suggested the remedy on Monday when he received the federal government delegation, led by the Chief of Staff to the President, Malam Abba Kyari, which paid a condolence visit on behalf of President Muhammadu Buhari. The President, in his message, delivered by the delegation, assured both the Katsina State Government and Emir of Katsina Abdulmuminu Kabir Usman, that his administration would do everything to rid the country of bandits, terrorists and criminals. President Buhari commiserated with government and people of Katsina, and also got a full brief on the security situation in the state, and the attack that claimed 31 lives in Batsari council area of the state at the weekend. He also commiserated with families of the victims for the repose of their souls. Masari told the delegation that the latest incident had marred seven months of unbroken peace in the state, following measures put in place by his administration. Masari, who received the delegation after his return from spots of the incident, said the only enduring remedy to banditry was provision of education, and he gave a strong assurance that education would continue to be a priority of government. The Emir of Katsina urged the military and police to put more effort in tackling the menace. ”We must go all out and spare no effort in tackling them. They are trying to destroy the country,’’ he added. At the meeting, the heads of security agencies, military and police, gave their situation reports to the delegation. The Nigerian Air Force fighter helicopters, with night vision capability, will support the ground operation against bandits. The Federal Government delegation included Minister of Defence, General Bashir Magashi (rtd), Minister of Police Affairs, Mohammed Maigari Dingyadi, Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika and Director General of National Intelligence Agency, Ambassador Ahmed Rufa’i Abubakar. Senior Special Assistants to the President, Household and Social Events, Malam Sarki Abba, and Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu. 