The Comptroller-General, Nigerian Customs Service (NCS), Ahmed Ali (rtd), has warned officers and men of the Service to ensure compliance to laid down rules guiding the NCS operations. Ali, who spoke to officers and men of the NCS Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Command, Lagos, shortly after commissioning the Customs Processing Centre (CPC) at the airport, advised the officers to step up the volume of seizures this year. “In the last three to four years that I have been with you, we have tried to reorientate everybody and accommodated ourselves by constant engagement. But now, I want to tell you that the era of Mr. Nice” is over. Henceforth, I want to be getting the names of officers who are revenue risk. Officers interested in building a career and earning a living to take care of their family can be assured that the Service is the best place for them to be, but those interested in earning a income outside their salary should leave the Service. If I catch anyone involved in corruption, then you are finished, otherwise you all have nothing to fear,” Ali warned. Earlier, the Customs CG, at the Federal Operations Unit (FOU) Zone A, Ikeja, displayed $8,065,612 seized by his operatives at the tarmac of Murtala Mohammed International Airport. Ali said the money was not declared in accordance with the law as such movement contravenes Money Laundering Act. He affirmed that some of the wrapped cash had names written on them. Ali said the seizure was made in 20 sealed wraps contained in six “Ghana must go” bags and preliminary investigation has commenced while two suspects arrested in connection with the seizure are in custody. Ali said a vehicle belonging to Nigerian Aviation Handling  plc (Nahco Aviance) was intercepted with some cash in foreign currencies as it conveyed the money to an aircraft at the airport. But NAHCo has denied the involvement of its vehicle in the seized $8 million. The company, in a statement, explained: “We wish to state unequivocally that NAHCO as an organisation has no connection whatsoever with this alleged act. The company has initiated contact with the Nigerian Customs Service’ hierarchy to provide it with details of this incident. “As a responsible corporate organisation, NAHCO will cooperate with all regulators, agencies and other stakeholders in not only finding out the truth about this unfortunate incident, but also rooting out malpractices in the sector. NAHCO  does not condone irresponsible and criminal behaviour. The company takes seriously the trust of its esteemed clients, partners and other stakeholders, both local and international, and will do everything to protect that trust.” Ali said further investigation on the currency will be carried out by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) before prosecution. He advised travelers to always declare any cash with them in excess of $10,000 in line with the Money Laundering and Anti Terrorism Financing laws.