By Hakeem Jamiu  The Governor of Ekiti State and chairman,  Nigeria’s Governors’  forum , Dr. Kayode Fayemi turns 55 today. Celebrating birthdays is not new  but it is significant to note that the personality being celebrated  is like a book to read and learn from. The life trajectory of the activist, scholar and politician is worthy of analysis. Nobody gave him a chance when he transmutated from a scholar- activist to a politician in 2005 but  he proved bookmakers wrong as he clinched the gubernatorial ticket of the then AC in the 2006 primaries. In the general election that followed in 2007, he was robbed of victory and had to wait for 42 months before he could recover his mandate through  the courts. His first tenure as governor was remarkable in the annals of Ekiti though some have  described it as a learning curve. Apart  from  being a  lucky man, he is an enigma who has a knack for making things happen. Fayemi’s first tenure in  Ekiti was such that projects were executed in all 133 towns and  communities in the state. His first tenure witnessed renovation of both primary and secondary schools, renovation of hospitals, reconstruction and rehabilitation of roads including federal roads, free education for   pupils up till junior secondary school, free healthcare programme for pregnant women, children below 5 and vulnerable people. Laptops were distributed to secondary school students and teachers in the state long before JAMB made its examinations computer based. During the tenure known as JKF -1, Ekiti became investors destination as many private organisations partnered with the state government. There were investments in the hospitality business and other sectors because the environment was conducive for investment. Ironically, Fayemi lost his bid for a second term in office despite having worked so hard to make life better of his people. In defeat, after the gubernatorial elections of June 2014, Fayemi though human, did not betray any emotion rather, the spirit of sportsmanship and statesmanship took the better part and he conceded defeat in a moving but philosophical speech which became clearer four years later. Fayemi  said, “if indeed this is the will of the Ekiti People, I stand in deference to your will.” . He also challenged scholars in that speech to research into the new sociology of Ekiti people regarding their voting pattern on the  election which gave a landslide victory to Ayodele Fayose who was impeached in 2003 and whose only manifesto and slogan was “stomach infrastructure”. This simply means he would ensure Ekiti people main priority will be food and this he did by periodically asking people to queue up for less than a cup of rice and N200 in most cases. Conversely, Fayemi apart from all the projects and the programmes mentioned above implemented the social security for the elderly whereby over 20,000 elderly people above 65 years were paid N5,000 monthly in  a most dignified manner and this was documented and opened to accountability. Fayemi also paid N10,000 stipend to unemployed youths who were later trained and paid off to start small businesses. There was the Oodua skill acquisition training which produced many skilled youths who are doing well in their chosen vocations today. Despite the mentioned interventions above, Fayemi still lost the election in  controversial  circumstances. Later events revealed that there was more to the outcome of that election  than meets the eye. Some senior army officers who engaged in intimidation and subtle electoral malfeasance were later given various punishments ranging from compulsory retirement and caution. Fayemi’s challenge to scholars may have been accepted as a group of scholars have taken up the academic challenge of critically interrogating his first tenure  and trying to provide answers to so many puzzles especially the emerging sociology of Ekiti people. In the book titled,  “Swimming Against The Trend: The Kayode Fayemi Administration in Ekiti State- 2010- 2014”, which shall be presented today,   effort was made by the scholars in one of the chapters  to provide explanation for the voting behaviour of Ekiti people during the June 2014 gubernatorial elections on what they called ‘the  paradox of plenty and the contradictions of choice in Ekiti. Fayemi moved on after that loss eventhough the period immediately after October 2014 and November 2015 when he was appointed Minister of the Federal Republic was another learning curve for him. It was then he understood more the nature of man. Many who served in his cabinet, members of the National and State Assemblies who owed their positions to his goodwill turned their backs on him. It was at this period when he was down that those he trusted most decided to ditch him not only  through their actions but  by openly saying to his hearing that he was finished politically!.   He took his travails with philosophical calmness and carried on. In fact his detractors marvelled  at his large heart as many of them are occupying one position or the other in  his government presently. It is worthy of note that in all of these, his soul mate, Bisi Fayemi remained  his pillar of support, standing by him  through  thick and thin. When he became  Minister, he learnt another lesson and he garnered more experience as a player in national politics. He became a favourite of President Muhammadu Buhari whose primary election he conducted without rancour. The Mines and Steel Development Ministry which he superintended over for more than 3 years was transformed from a dry ministry  to a juicy one. The sector  grew by 6% quarter-on-quarter in the last five quarters despite the recession and  Prof. Yemi Osibajo alluded to this when he said the Ministry of Mines and Steel Development under Dr. Kayode Fayemi is performing. Apart from performing as a minister, Fayemi became a bridge builder and rallying point  for so many interests and tendencies across the nation. He became Mr.  solution to many intractable disagreements and problems. Ayodele Fayose succeeded Kayode Fayemi and thus gave Ekiti people the opportunity to compare the duo. Even though the Ekiti electorate was assumed to have taken their decision in preferring a Fayose to a Fayemi,  they were left to live with their  choice but later events followed a natural order that mistakes could always be corrected. The opportunity for Ekiti people to correct their mistake of 2014 came in 2018 when Fayemi again threw his hat in the ring to  reclaim the seat he lost in not too fair circumstances in 2014. The opposition against him was massive when he first hinted that he would run and this was mostly from within the party. However, as as the campaign for the primaries progressed,   there was 360 degree turn of the table in Fayemi’s favour such that his acceptability shot from about 40% to about 75% within 3 months and predictably, he won the primaries of his party with a landslide and he went ahead to win the general election of July 14, 2018 by defeating Fayose’s protege, Prof. Olusola Eleka.  Again, many obstacles aimed at disqualifying him was  put in his way by his predecessor, Ayodele Fayose who knew that the only way to stop Fayemi from becoming governor again was to disqualify him through a predetermined white paper report which was later quashed by a court of law. Hardly had he become governor that another responsibility beaconed at the national level in respect if who becomes the chairman of Nigeria governors’ forum which is a very influential position. The lot fell on him again as his emergence as the chairman of the exalted forum was almost a fait accompli as he enjoyed tremendous support among his colleagues. He presently occupied that position and he has been managing the affairs of that forum well. On the home front, Fayemi has lived up to his electoral mantra of ‘restoring our values and reclaiming our land’. His predecessor owed workers between 5 and 8 months salary and  imposed  heavy taxes on all including school children! Fayemi through executive order 1 abrogated payment of school fees in the state and this has brought a lot of relief to many parents and the pupils many of whom have dropped out of school making Ekiti one of the states with a  high number of out of school children. Workers salary and allowances are now paid regularly while the social security for the elderly earlier stopped by his predecessor has been revived with modifications. The Ekiti International Cargo Airport is under construction;  Ado -Iyin dual carriage way road project abandoned  for ages is also  under construction;  a  plan to make agriculture fully commercial by improving on the gains of Youth in Commercial  Agriculture Development (YCAD) is in place; while Knoweldge Economy shall be fully institutionalised to make  education functional and productive in accordance with global best practices. Unlike in the past one can now boldly and proudly claim to be an indigene of  Ekiti because Fayemi is a national pride and a Governor who is proper and fit for that position. He exemplifies  the agelong virtues of Ekiti people which are decency, honesty, hardwork and integrity. Fayemi is that governor that Ekiti home and abroad deserve. He is humane, urbane, scholarlistic and decent. As this enigma turns 55 today, it is our prayer that his star continues to shine as we pray God to grant him many more healthy years in the service of our country. Happy Birthday Oni Uyi, Oni Eye. 