 MEDIA entrepreneur and author, Tosin Ajibade, who is popularly known as Olorisupergal has launched a new Vlog. Titled ‘Healthy Living with Tosin’, Olorisupergirl launched the Vlog on Monday, February 17, 2020 to celebrate her birthday. ‘Healthy Living with Tosin’ will cater to men and women who are in the process of changing their diet and do not know how to start. The Vlog will see Tosin talk about her healthy lifestyle, her opinion on certain diets while also encouraging and acting as accountability partner to subscribers wherever they are on their diet journey. The Vlog will also feature guests who will share their fitness journey and personal tips. In an Instagram post, Olorisupergal disclosed why she embarked on the project. “I decided to start Healthy Living with Tosin, to share my journey with all of you,” she wrote. “I believe that if people had more information, access and easy to understand information, especially as Nigerians, we will make better conscious choices with our health.” She further encouraged the public to join her. “Let’s build this community together, let’s have these conversations and most importantly, let’s change our lives,” Olorisupergirl stated. In 2006, Olorisupergirl was diagnosed with Ovarian Cyst but that did not make her take her health seriously as she thought she could just ignore the symptoms despite the discomfort she was experiencing. She was later diagnosed with PCOS and Hormonal Imbalance; a diagnosis that changed her life forever and brought her to the realization of how much she needed to make drastic changes to her lifestyle if she wanted to live healthy. After being diagnosed, Tosin suddenly felt the need to face her truth and take responsibility for her health. She met Oshuware Leon of Bon Delice at an event, who helped her through the process of a healthier lifestyle as she made some changes to her lifestyle. The first episode will be live on Youtube on Monday, February 24, 2020 and new episodes will drop every week subsequently. Topics to be explored would focus on healthy lifestyle, nutrition, diet, meals, staying fit and more. 