One suspected car snatcher was shot dead while another sustained gunshot in a gun battle between the Anambra police and a gang of robbers in Awada, Obosi, Anambra state. The duo, members of a six-man gang had in January, waylaid and snatched at gunpoint a Toyota Venza from a female driver at Ndogo village Nise, Awka South local government area of the state. Parading their accomplices on Tuesday, the Commissioner of Police, John Abang, said the suspects had on sighting the police, resisted arrest and engaged the police in a fierce gun battle. He said a Barreta Pistol with four live ammunition and one anti-car tracking device were recovered from the suspects. He said, “The suspects had on the 8/1/2020 at about 2:pm, Gunmen suspected to be armed robbers numbering about Six with AK 47 rifles and other dangerous weapons waylaid and snatched at gunpoint a Toyota Venza with customized Registration number KOCO valued Six Million Naira (#6000,000) from one Nwadike Collette Kosisochukwu ‘f’ at Ndogo village Nise. “Following the distress call, Police operatives attached to the Command Special Anti robbery Squad SARS swung into action and trailed the suspects at their hideouts along Eze iweka by high tension Awada. “Suspects were rushed to the hospital for treatment but one of them whose identity is yet unknown was confirmed dead on arrival while the second suspect identified as Micheal Ogbonna ‘m’ aged 45 years of Achina town in Aguata LGA of Anambra State who also sustained gunshot injuries on his leg is receiving treatment. “Further investigation through actionable intelligence also led to the recovery of the Toyota Venza snatched from the victim.” The CP further disclosed the arrest of one Obinna Nwabunike ‘m’ of Abigi village Umuoji by the Command Special Anti robbery Squad (SARS) with gunshot injuries. He said one Taurius Beretta pistol with breech number TM 856888 loaded with ten rounds of G2C .9mm live ammunition was recovered from him. “Furthermore on the 12/1/2020, the Command SARS Operatives also arrested in Asaba Delta State, one Paul Chukwuezugo ‘m’ aged 40 years. “Exhibits recovered from the suspect includes One Mercedes 350 without registration number and one Lexus Jeep which was allegedly snatched from the owner after he was killed in the process of snatching the vehicle,” he added. Abang revealed that all the suspects were members of the same syndicate.