Chinyere Okoroafor with agency report It is true that we cannot put money in a plate and eat it. Therefore, paying for an item that we like is one of the ways in which we literally eat our money. So, if we hope to own beautiful things or get our hands on these pricey possessions, it is only wise that we start saving. This world most expensive shoe can be found in Jada Dubai store in Dubai. Even when you flood your home with Christian Louboutins shoes, you would not still come close to reaching the price of these diamond-encrusted golden heels that goes for a whooping sum of $17 million. Each stiletto is lined with 118 smaller diamonds and finished with a 15-carat D-flawless diamond. If you really hope to look young, JK7 Skincare’s Rejuvenating Serum-Lotion is the cream to do that for you. You will have to pay $1,800 for 1 fl. Oz, to have a feel of the most expensive anti-aging serum in the world. According to the company claim, the lotion can “stop the degenerative processes of the body.” The serum has some 70-plus ingredients, which JK7 founder Jurgen Klein spent a decade testing to get the formula just right. This world most expensive burger is sold at the Oak Door Restaurant at the Grand Hyatt Tokyo, Japan. The monstrous burger which is poised of a 2.2-pound beef patty, Wagyu beef slices, foie gras, black truffle shavings, and a gold-dusted bun cost $914. Each purchase comes with a magnum-sized bottle of your choice of Champagne or wine. Sennheiser HE 1s which cost $59,000 is disputably the ne plus ultra (the best example) of high-class headphones in the world and not Apple Airpods. It was reported that the development of the electrostatic headphones took nearly a decade This world most expensive headphone is manufactured by Sennheiser electronic GmbH & Co. KG. It was founded by a German man called Fritz Sennheiser in 1945.  If you think Montblanc is the world classiest and pricier writing instrument then you have not heard of Whitegold Perfect Pencil made by Graf von Faber-Castell, a writing instrument company by a German stationary manufacturer, Faber-Castell. Made with a diamond-and-white-gold instrument, the pencil is available for $10,000. With this No.1 Imperial Majesty perfume by Clive Christian, you are sure to feel like a million cash, as well as smell like it too. Sold at the sum of $205,000 for 500mL, this limited edition quintessence is the most expensive perfume in the world. The perfume is absolute oil, and the case polished crystal that houses it has an 18-karat-gold collar with a five-carat white diamond in the center. Clive Christian is a British designer best known for his designer kitchens and his creation of Clive Christian No. 1, the world’s most expensive perfume Made with authentic crocodilian leather by Louis Vuitton, the LV signature bag is sold for $55,500, making it one of the world’s most expensive hand bags. Louis Vuitton Malletier, commonly known as Louis Vuitton, is a French fashion house and luxury retail company founded in 1854 by Louis Vuitton. Opus 14 white gold watch is made by an American iconic jeweler, Harry Winston. The timepiece was released in 2015 and there are only 50 pieces of it in the world. To get your hands on one of it, you will need to save a whooping sum of $600,000. All Franco shades are expensive, but none is compared to his Canary diamond glasses known as Luxuriator, which are coated with high-quality diamonds and sold for $65,000. Celebrities like Elton John and Oprah Winfrey have been spotted wearing this world most expensive sun shade. The collection is by a Los Angeles based eyewear and jewelry designer Franco. Moet & Chandon Dom Perignon Rose Gold 1996 There are only 35 bottles of this gold-plated Dom Perignon Rose Champagne in the world. Produced in 1996, it is sold today at $52,785. It is arguably one of the most expensive Champagnes. Titan screen have televisions the size of a living room wall. They are the world’s largest television on the market. Built in British the Titan Zeus 370-Inch 4K TV is sold for $1.6 million, making it the most expensive television set in the world. Measuring at 26 feet by 16 feet, some mega-mansions would have a hard time finding adequate wall space for this huge piece of equipment. There is also an outdoor version of this gargantuan for a similar price. Goldvish Eclipse Desiring Arcadia is world’s most expensive cell phone. Embellished with 320 diamonds, stainless steel parts, and exotic alligator leather, the Android-operated device is worth $119,282 with a built-in case. Goldvish is a Swiss manufacturer of premium luxury mobile phones. The Old Homestead Steakhouse Catered Thanksgiving Dinner: $150,000 The Zénith Chandelier is one of the most expensive light fixtures in the market. The $491,700 Chandelier, depending on the size of your home, can be customized to have eight lights to 84, and the fixture can weigh as much as 800 pounds. It is characterized by an added Crystal Champagne color created by a union of gold and crystal. If you want to own the most expensive Bluetooth speaker in the world, you will have to save $3,500. Devialet Gold Phantom Opéra de Paris speaker is a thin white speaker with gold leaf gills and a titanium tweeter that has a 4500-watt peak. This Ecuadorian chocolate from To’ak cost $375. The chocolate is derived from Nacional cacao, an uncommon variety that was thought to have died out until recently. To’ak Chocolate is an Ecuadorian company founded in 2013 by Jerry Toth and Carl Schweizer. Berco’s Billion Dollar Popcorn Berco’s Billion Dollar Popcorn is garnished with some of the world’s finest ingredients, such as butter from Vermont Creamery, Nielson Massey bourbon vanilla, salt from the Danish island Laeso, and 23-karat edible gold flakes. You will have to pay $250 for 1 gallon of Berco’s Billion Dollar luxurious popcorn.  