Members of the National Youth Service Corps will have the opportunity to participate in The Duke of Edinburgh’s International Award, Minister of Youths and Sports Development Sunday Dare said on Thursday. Dare said his ministry will partner with organisers of the award which is also known as the International Award for Young People in Nigeria. The minister spoke when he received the Chairman, Duke of Edinburgh’s International Award Foundation, His Royal Highness, the Prince Edward, Earl of Wessex, in Abuja. Fourteen young Nigerians received the gold awards in Abuja from Prince Edward. The minister said: “As part of ensuring that the values accruable from the award get to more youths, the ministry of youths and sports development will inculcate the Duke of Edinburgh’s Award into corps members serving in the National Youth Service Corps. “As I said in the meeting we had in my office, we churn out between 320,000 to 350,000 youth corps members every year. The largest single concentration of youth in our country. “The Federal Ministry of Youths and Sports Development will, going forward, partner the award organisers to involve more corpers in Nigeria. It will be a good target for this programme that our youths need opportunities to build confidence, set goals, and targets for themselves.” He said the ministry is ready to create opportunities for young ones in the country and train them to become entrepreneurs. “Nigeria has a youth population that is up standing, hardworking, resilient and able to hold their own when it is needed. The Nigerian government is refocusing its programmes and initiatives on the youths. “We see value in our young ones; we see value in the young achievers award and the awardees by His Royal Highness, Prince Edward. It is an award that has the capacity to increase the aspiration for excellence among our young people. “Beyond that, it will increase the thirst for excellence. The multiplying effect of the award is something we look forward to,” he added. Prince Edward  commended the awardees and urged them to go on and spread the message that the award teaches. “It is a great feeling when you get to the end. These young people have made a huge effort to achieve their goals. So, it is really fantastic that you (the minister) have come out today to recognise their achievements. “You are the very first to come and collect the gold award in Nigeria. You are very much the pioneers. So, I hope you go out and spread the message,” the Prince said. The Chairman, Board of Trustees of The International Award for Young People Nigeria/International Trustees of The Duke of Edinburgh’s International Award Foundation, Mr. Wale Edun, urged the awardees to continue to do those things that saw them through the gold award. He said those qualities that saw them through to earn the gold award would also see them through in life. “Those same qualities that have seen you through to gold will see you through in life, to a life of service, a life of contribution, and a life of achievement,” Edun said. The Duke of Edinburgh’s International Award was established in 1956 by the Duke of Edinburgh. Since its introduction in Nigeria in 2014, over 27,000 young people have participated in the award with more than 11,000 currently undertaking their experience this year. The Award, which is available to all young people between ages 14 and 24. It equips them with life skills regardless of their background, culture and physical ability.