Harbinger of death called anger in relationship (1) – https://thenationonlineng.net/harbinger-of-death-called-anger-in-relationship-1/ This will help you choose your words more carefully and not say something you will regret .it’s easy just pause, then start counting 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9, and then 10. The tide will gradually go down. And if it doesn’t WALK THE HELL AWAY!!!It works all the time. “Catch” the other’s feelings, trying to feel them yourself. Surprisingly, this makes the experience of those feelings actually diminish. This is powerful because it is really the only way a person can impact another’s experience with feelings of anger in relationships. Repeat back what you heard in order to confirm you understood, and affirm your partner’s feelings. For instance,” Ade am I write to believe you didn’t expect me to act that way?” when he responds yes then you know you understand clearly the situation you are in, and if Ade says know ask him to repeat or rephrase or better still change language. For one, hug, and do have sex. For many women, this may involve a bit of fake it ’til you make it if the situation is in the process of being resolved but isn’t there yet. For most men, sex actually serves to alleviate resentment because it’s a form of connection in its own right. SEX WORKS, it may not be the final situation but it’s a step, unless you don’t love each other, lack of sex causes doubt or fear. Understand your partner and find out what works. One man’s meat another man’s poison Even though you both might not be in the same emotional place during the resolution process, connecting physically can help. In fact, I personally suggest that if the marriage is on a downswing, have sex at least once a day. The scheduled connection might put things in a different light and aid in resolving resentment. This thing called sex is like food for some people, if your spouse sees sex as food, please feed them with it. don’t be stingy. This can be metaphorical and also realistic. In order to channel resentment into empathy, the “understanding bridge” will need to be gapped. Integrate the idea that “we both have to be on this bridge together.” We really can’t see what our partner is feeling until we get out on the bridge. The more steps you take, the more you can see the middle “hump” of this bridge, where you both come together in understanding the other. In order to actualize this place of mutual understanding, one idea is to literally go to a bridge nearby., not third mainland bridge please. Look for a good and calm location and talk things out. Let it a place you both LIKE. Look your partner ask them how they feel. Empathy is not necessarily the default feeling and needs some retraining to become part of you. if you try it every day it will spice things ups and show you care. Routine empathy can be actualized by checking in with our partners about how they are feeling, Once empathy becomes intrinsic behavior, resentment often becomes a thing of the past. Empathy, it turns out, is the answer for how to control anger in your relationships. As such, feelings of empathy also fuel natural anxiety reduction. Not only will you hopefully come to an understanding with your life partner, you will both feel calmer. Making empathy a regular part of your relationship will have an impact not only on getting along better, but ultimately feeling more connected and less stressed, because it facilitates you getting out of your own Head, and into your partner’s. Empathy, as such, fosters unity, transforming narcissistic into conjoined, and dismay into understanding. Empathy forges the reinvention of self that is necessary for long-lasting love. The truth is every relationship goes through ups and down. No relationship is perfect. If you have done all you possibly and humanly can and it still is not working, then walk away. It does not have to result into death, no one deserves to lose their life all in the name of Love. I wish you all the best.