Bayelsa State Governor Douye Diri has called on the All Progressives Congress governorship candidate David Lyon, the Minister of Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva and opposition parties in the state to support his administration. He said he needed their support and that of former President Goodluck Jonathan to succeed. He presented his Certificate of Return to the former president a few hours after he received it from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). He spoke on Sunday at a thanksgiving service at Gloryland Chapel in Government House Yenagoa. While thanking God for giving him the mandate, the governor urged all his supporters to be magnanimous in victory as he was ready to appoint people in opposition into his cabinet. He said: “I will be governor of all, be it PDP, APC and others. We must remain united and ensure peace in our land. That is the only time we can be talking of development. Let us work together.” The governor said his priority was to bring development to every part of the state but warned that his administration would have zero-tolerance for crimes. “Our administration will not condone crimes and criminalities. No development can take place in the atmosphere devoid of peace, he said. In his sermon, the guest preacher, Apostle Zilly Aggrey of Royal House of Grace International, said no man should take the glory for the declaration of Diri as governor by the Supreme Court. Aggrey warned against frivolities in governance and advised the governor to be wary of bootlickers who, according to him, have the habit of running down other people for personal gains. Noting that Bayelsa State was too rich in resources to be poor, he urged the governor to initiate projects that would have direct bearing on the people. He said: “Every community in Bayelsa State should have good drinking water.   You should work with competent Nigerians, Koreans, the Chinese, Germans and people of other good nations to bring development to our people. Our youths need jobs”. Aggrey called on the people of Bayelsa to continue to pray for the governor and his deputy to provide them effective leadership.