The senator representing Yobe East, Ibrahim Gaidam, has explained why he sponsored the Bill to create a commission forthe de-radicalisation of repentant Boko Haram insurgents. Gaidam, who addressed reporters on Monday in Abuja, said the proposed commission would help repentant insurgents to “re-enter mainstream politics, religion and society”. The senator said the “Bill for an Act to establish a National Agency for the education, de-radicalisation, rehabilitation and reintegration of repentant insurgents” would promote reconciliation and national unity. According to him, when the agency is established, it will “provide an avenue for rehabilitating, de-radicalising and reintegrating the defectors, repentant and forcefully conscripted members of the insurgent group Boko Haram to make them useful members of the society”. The senator also said it would “provide an avenue for reconciliation and promote national security. “Provide an open-door and encouragement for other members of the group who are still engaged in insurgency to abandon the group, especially in the face of the military pressure. “Allow the government to derive insider-information about the insurgency group for greater understanding of the group and its inner workings”. Gaidam noted that “gaining a greater understanding of the insurgents will enable the government to study the needs of de-radicalisation effort, improve the process and address the immediate concerns of violence. “Enable government to use the defectors to fight the unrepentant insurgents. “Help disintegrate the violent and poisonous ideology that the group spreads as the programme will allow some repentant defectors or suspect terrorists to express remorse over their actions, repent and recant their violent doctrine and in the long run, re-enter mainstream politics, religion and society”. He added that the agency would also help to combat future recruitments into the insurgents’ group. “If defectors told their stories and were made more public, their experiences would play a key role in countering terrorist propaganda, which in turn would lessen the appeal of joining the group,” Gaidam said. The Yobe East senator expressed concern about how to ensure that repentant terrorists are well rehabilitated and made useful members of the society. He explained that the specialised programmes of the proposed agency would serve as “mechanisms for disengagement from terrorist’s ideology and invalidate the recourse to violence”. “In view of the fact that the Boko Haram insurgency is becoming increasingly aggressive since its inception in 2009, marked by extreme brutality and explicit targeting of civilians …it has become necessary for us to go back to the drawing board and adopt an alternative approach, in addition to the military option, which has so far performed significantly well. “There is no doubt that many members of the insurgents’ group have defected and many more are willing to repent, given a window of opportunity. This is confirmed by many organisations, including non-governmental organisations (NGOs) that have unalloyed access to the Boko Haram.”