 A Former lawmaker, who represented Ado- Odo Otta Federal Constituency of Ogun State, Mr. Kazeem Olawale Salako, has hailed the efforts of members of the Dapo Abiodun Campaign Organisation (DABCO). He praised them for their steadfastness and cooperation during the campaign, which led to the emergence of Prince Dapo Abiodun as the Ogun State governor. Salako spoke at the weekend at the inauguration of DABCO political office in Sango-Otta, Ogun State. He lauded the courage and leadership style of the founder and initiator of the group, Mr.  Samuel Okedara, saying they contributed to the success of Governor Abiodun at the polls. Salako, the former general manager of Gateway Hotels, said everything about DABCO was built around Governor Abiodun. He thanked God that their prayers were answered, especially with the emergence of Prince Abiodun as the Ogun State governor.  Salako urged members of the group to keep its spirit alive by not derailing on the vision and aspiration on which it was founded, assuring them that they would reap the dividends of democracy because their efforts at bringing Governor Abiodun to office would be compensated. Okedara said that the group was formed in 2018 before the campaign, to showcase and reinvigorate the importance of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to Ogun State residents, especially because of the presence and emergence of political affiliations then. He said DABCO was present at all political rallies of Prince Abiodun throughout the campaign in all nooks and crannies of the state. Okedara enjoined members of the group not to relent, but to continue to be steadfast and loyal to DABCO “because the payback time is now.” “We will continue to meet, talk and interact with Ogun people and sell the vision, programmes and policies of our party and those of our governor to the residents without intimidation, harassment or coercion. All of us have worked and I want us to remain united because the payback time is now for all of us to reap the dividends of democracy,” he said. The Women Mobiliser of the group in Ado-Odo Otta Local Government, Yeye Monisola Onipede, thanked God for being with the group since its inception and for making the job of the group to manifest with the emergence of Prince Abiodun as the Ogun State governor. 