From Adamu Suleiman, Sokoto  Not less than N19 billion has been committed to the construction and renovation of 948 classrooms across schools in the state from 2015 till date, Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal has said. According to a breakdown, 388 new classrooms were constructed  and 460 renovated within the period. Also, structures erected within the  period included offices and stores spread across the state in various schools. Tambuwal made this known in Sokoto during the kick off for the 2018 marching grant projects and distribution of intent letters to successful contractors held at the State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) headquarters in the state capital. The governor said 23 school gardens and 23 boreholes were part of construction, while five schools were fenced and three more rehabilitated to secure both pupils and property. Tambuwal pointed out that the amount has not reflected the counterpart fund by the Federal Government’s Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC), which stands at about N7.2 billion, in addition to the intervention funds provided through the state Ministry for Local Government Affairs, totalling N6 billion. The governor also disclosed that the amount expended by the state government excludes the N2 billion provided by the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to sponsor the construction of more classrooms without any marching grant from Federal Government.  He added that his administration having taken cognisance of the large population of students that require basic education and  decided to dedicate 26 per cent  of its budget to classroom construction. This, he explained, had resulted in  the Sultanate council’s continued support and cooperation in the execution of all its programmes for the development of the state. The SUBEB Chairman, Hon Shuaibu Gwanda Gobir, said the state government has distributed  instructional materials worth N71 million to basic education schools. He added that it had also paid counterpart funds for the  take-off of the Better Education Service Delivery for All (BESDA) programme, in addition  to prompt payment of marching grants counterpart funds. In a good will message, the Coordinator of UBEC office in Sokoto, Hajiya Mairo Usman, stated that the  government has paid all its marching grants up to 2019. Highlight of the ceremony was the distribution of motorcycles for  monitoring officers of BESDA. 