 Senator Solomon Adeola on Wednesday kicked against the confirmation of a new Chairman of the Board of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) by the Senate. Adeola, who represents Lagos West, said that it was wrong for the Upper Chamber to screen and confirm Professor Adeolu Akande (South West) as the Chairman of the Board of NCC while a former colleague, Senator Olabiyi Durojaiye was unceremoniously and illegally eased out of the office. He said that it would have been proper for the Senate to stand by one of its own since the treatment meted out on him could be replicated to any other colleague in future. He lamented that Senator Durojaiye was only allowed to serve three out of his five -year tenure before he was eased out. He appealed for the intervention of the Senate on the matte to give the former lawmaker and former Chairman of the NCC, the opportunity and privilege of tendering his resignation. The Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, in his response to the complaint raised by Senator Adeola, sympathised with the former Chairman of NCC over his plight. Lawan, noted that the request to allow Durojaiye resign his appointment, as proposed by Senator Adeola, was beyond the jurisdiction of the Upper Chamber to entertain. “The Senate did not initiate the nomination. The Senate received the nomination from Mr. President. The initial nomination of the former Chairman was only brought to the Senate to be confirmed at that time. “So, the issue of whether to have the opportunity to resign is entirely not in the hands of the Senate. However, I really sympathize with the situation, but I want to remind you, that the prerogative of nominations rests with Mr. President. “This Senate will always try to ensure that there is adherence to due processes. But I believe that this is a matter that can best be sorted out in the Presidency rather than in the Senate,” Lawan said. The Senate has confirmed Professor Adeolu Akande (South West) and Mr. Uche Onwude (South East) as Chairman and member of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC). The Senate also confirmed the appointment of nominees to serve as Chairman and Members of the National Assembly Service Commission (NASC). The confirmation of the NASC nominees was sequel to the consideration of the report of the Senate Committee on Establishment and Public Service, presented by its Chairman, Senator Ibrahim Shekarau. Those confirmed to serve on the National Assembly Service Commission include: Engr. Ahmed Kadi Amshi, Chairman; Babagana Modu (Borno – North East); Senator Abubakar Tutare, Taraba- North-East); Hakeem Akamo (Lagos – South West); Tunrayo Akintomide (Ondo – South West); Atanomeyorwi Francis (Delta – South South) and Engr. Bassey Etuk (Akwa Ibom – South South). Others are Hon. Bailyaminu Yusuf Shinkafi (Zamfara – North West); Sani Saidu Kazaure (Jigawa – North West); Senator Julius Ucha (Ebonyi – South East); Auwalu Aliyu Ohindase (Kogi – North-Central and Muazu Is’haq (Nasarawa – North Central). The Senate, however, adopted the committee’s recommendation for another nomination to fill the South East slot declined by the Imo State nominee, Nnamdi Anyaehi.