A massive clean-up campaign, aimed at sensitising stakeholders along Lagos State’s coastline to the evils of pollution, indiscriminate waste disposal and other forms of abuses of the Lagos lagoon, began on Wednesday. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who launched the exercise at the Five Cowries Terminal, the headquarters of the Lagos State Waterways Authority (LASWA), said the campaign is to stop littering of the marine with refuse and sensitise the public on the “potential consequences of their actions on the waterways.” He hinted of plans by the government to come up with a waterway transportation policy that will ensure regular clean-up and protection of the state’s waterways against all forms of environmental degradation and abuses that may impede the well-being of the people. Describing the exercise as the first phase of what will become a year round exercise, Sanwo-Olu said the campaign would be felt across the five major corridors of the state’s water routes. Other areas where the sensitisation campaign will be vigorous are the 15km of city beach between the Kuramo waters, Victoria Island and Lekki Conservation Centre, the 25km between Ilubirin and Periwinkle Estate at Ikate and the 4.8 drainage channel outfalls all of which fall within the Lagos East Senatorial District. The governor, represented by the Commissioner for Transportation, Dr. Frederic Oladeinde, said a clean waterway would impact on the safety of the waterways and water transport system as well as preserve the lives of people living in the riverine communities. He said: “In order to sustain the war against the multifaceted marine litters on our waterways, it has become necessary for everyone to come together and proffer a solution to the sources of the challenges militating against improved water transportation system.” This, according to him, is in line with the administration’s commitment to a water transportation that is safe, clean and friendly in terms of efficiency and service delivery. He hailed LASWA and other sister agencies for enlightening the public on the dangers inherent in indiscriminate disposal of waste into the lagoon, reduction of accidents on the waterways by ensuring free flow of movement on the waterways as well as the protection of lives of aquatic animals. He said water transportation remains a major component of the government’s vision for a multi modal transport system that will meet the transportation needs of an estimated population of over 22 million people in an emerging Smart City. This, Sanwo-Olu emphasised, underscored the reason why the government had continued to invest massively in water transportation in its bid to use it to unlock traffic gridlock in the metropolis. “We are determined to leave no stone unturned in our commitment to ease commuter’s movement, promote the growth of commerce and economic activities, save travel time and reduce traffic induced stress to the barest for healthy living of the people,” he said. He said the government launched eight ferries at Badore to bring the number of ferries owned by the Lagos State Ferry Services Corporation (LAGFERRY) to 14, while six routes are to be added to the existing ones as the government is determined to expand water routes for maximum optimisation. He said the government is determined to explore to the fullest the state’s rich aquatic endowment and make navigable its 287km long Atlantic coastline and its extensive lagoon system, which constitute about 22 per cent of the state’s land mass. LASWA General Manager Damilola Emmanuel had praised the government for its commitment to the waterways. He said the clean-up would be sustained through the activities of the LAWMA marine as well as aggressive sensitisation campaign that would see its officials engaging traders and others to stop the habit of dumping their refuse in the lagoon.