The Vice Chancellor, The First Technical University, Ibadan, Prof. Ayobami Salami, has stressed the need for entrepreneurial and vocational education to make students market-ready and competitive. Salami made this call on Tuesday, during the matriculation of 184 new students at the institution. He said entrepreneurial and vocational educational were key to bridging the employment gap. He said that the Tech-U decided to combine practice with theory because the supply of graduates continued to surpass available jobs in the country. He said: “So, we have a vision and roadmap that will present you, our students, with valuable options when you graduate from here. My dear new students, we know you will need the good jobs upon your graduation, but you will also be in a position to establish on your own and become creators of your earnings and employers of others. You will need the market but the market will also need you based on what we will have imparted in you at the end of your study at the Tech-U. “This is guaranteed by the nature of our curriculum that combines theory with the practical. The First Technical University is unique not only because it is a pioneer in its area of specialisation, but also because of its corrective orientation. The Tech-U is bold, resolute but pragmatic in terms of the core vision of bridging the skill gaps that exist in the country’s educational system. Far from being another factory of job seekers, we are a nurturing ground for entrepreneurs, those who really make the difference in the life of our nation.” During the programme, the university presented its 3s scholars, being those who are currently on the First Class grade.  All the scholars get N10, 000 monthly stipend, courtesy of the Josephus Foundation. Also showcased were those the university call the Tech-U entrepreneurship – eight of them – who have distinguished themselves in the entrepreneurial and creative world, despite being students. The event, which was preceded by a Parents’ Forum, had in attendance dignitaries that included the Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs in Oyo State, Mrs Funmilayo Orisadeyi; and mother of the state Governor, Mrs. Abigail Makinde