Editorial  He was a thinker in politics. That is uncommon in a country where many political players are driven by thoughts of self-enlargement. He demonstrated the elasticity of political philosophy with his book, Cimilicy, a new form of government for Nigeria: its socialist implications. Cimilicy is a portmanteau of civilian, military and democracy.  The concept is about equilibrium in the public sphere and its attainment. Indeed, Arthur Nwankwo, who died on February 1, aged 77, wrote a number of striking books with striking titles, including, The Making of a Nation: Biafra (1969);Nigeria: The Stolen Billions (1999);Nigeria: The Challenge of Biafra (1972); Nigeria: The Political Transition and the Future of Democracy (1993); The Igbo nation and the Nigerian state (1999); The Igbo leadership and the future of Nigeria (1985). He had started a career in publishing after the civil war ended in 1970, and in 1977 he co-founded Fourth Dimension Publishing Company with his brother. His publishing activities reflected his faith in the potency of the printed word. He promoted literacy in a society that needed to take reading more seriously. As the governorship candidate of the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) in Anambra State in 1979, his participation hinted at progress that could be achieved when philosophers became kings. As chancellor of the Eastern Mandate Union (EMU) in the 1990s, he made a name for himself as a champion of democracy. He was detained by the military government. He later became vice-chairman of National Democratic Coalition (NADECO) at a time when pro-democracy activists struggled with an oppressive government for the soul of the country.  NADECO National Secretary Ayo Opadokun said in a tribute that situated Nwankwo’s progressivism: “Activist Nwankwo later on enlarged his activism reputation when he set up the EMU with younger and vibrant ideologues to sensitise, inform and mobilise Nigerians and the Igbo nation in particular to join forces with NADECO, the platform established by most activists, credible political and retired military leaders, professional groups, civil society groups, students, ethnic nationalities, academics, students, among others, for a credible campaign against the annulment of the presidential election victory of Bashorun M.K.O. Abiola in the June 12, 1993 election, and for the convocation of a Sovereign National Conference (SNC) to discuss and resolve the Nigerian national question once and for all times…” Nwankwo’s political struggles at politically critical junctures showed not only where he stood but also why. He was an unapologetic combatant on the side of democracy and good governance. His studies at Eastern Menonnite University in the 1960s, and then Duquesne University, where he earned a master’s degree, both in the US, possibly contributed to his democratic orientation. He projected an intellectual image as a politician, and a political image as an intellectual. His political activism was a lesson in defined defiance of dictatorship. His NADECO role showed the depth of his commitment to democracy. The fight for democracy, against a uniquely repressive military machine, demanded guts; and Nwankwo displayed exemplary courage. It was a dangerous time to be democracy-friendly, but it was not only correct but also enlightened to be democracy-friendly. Nwankwo expressed his political position with energetic clarity. It’s a measure of his self-belief that in 2003 he ran for president under the banner of the independent People’s Mandate Party, which was created out of EMU. Interestingly, he wasn’t defined by his Igbo ethnicity in a political context where ethnicity is a common response to diversity. His legacy as a human rights fighter, political activist, intellectual and writer, patriot, progressive thinker and earnest politician, deserves attention. 