By Omowaleayo Wale-Olaitan, Abuja Cherish Enterprise Institute Limited and Adam start Nigeria have signed a Memorandum of Understanding for a strategic partnership which would focus on delivering enterprise and skilled education for the unserved and underserved youths in Katsina, Kano and others in Northern Nigeria. Vice of the institute, former Minister of Water Resources and Agriculture, Sayyadi Abba Ruma, who signed on behalf of the institute, said that the institute will engage the youths of the area in meaningful economic activities that will be a measure for tackling the security challenge in the country. The institute, according to him during the signing ceremony in Abuja, is located Batsari village, Katsina State. He said that the strategic partnership between both parties is to drive the social enterpenuership partnership for young Nigerians ,while also driving knowledge driven programmes that creates wealth and build capacity as part of measures geared towards cracking down unemployment in the country. The partnership, entitled ‘First mover Advantage’ will provide an innovative centre of excellence for Enterpreneurs hip education, accredited vocation skills training, mentoring and the entire value chain of enterprise opportutunities for young people in Northern states ,in mostly unserved and underserved area. The former minister explained that the institute was deliberately sited in the rural area for it to serve an inclusive purpose . Stressing that some onlookers do raise questions about siting such an institution in a village instead of Abuja or Lagos, he submitted that he is an ambassador of the village. According to him, most school proprietors consider profitability or return on investment to locate similar institutes in Abuja or Lagos but learning must be sufficiently demonstrated with innovative and creative ideas that will impact legacies to humanity. He noted that without the primacy of a consideration of humanity, the idea only services a different purpose. The former minister also said that now that the security situation in Nigeria worsened the basic solution for addressing the menace is the constructive engagement of the youths. He said that “The question everywhere is security. There is no way this security issue can be addressed if you don’t commence a process of constructive engagement of youths: those that have gone to school and those that have not been to school into a number of areas which is wealth, population itself to drive small and medium enterprises. This, they will be proud of and it will help us to minimize insecurity and bring a bastion of hope to the common man.” On the agreement which he signed with the Chief Executive Officer, Adamstart, Mr. Adams Bradford, he explained that the partnership will provide an innovative centre of excellence for entrepreneurship education, accredited vocational skills training, mentoring and entire value chain of enterprise opportunities for young people in the northern states of Kano and Katsina who are often unserved and underserved . He said that it will also launch the Agri For All Programme, which empowers agriculture opportunities through infrastructure and finance as a way of alleviating poverty and stimulating the economy. Meanwhile, Bradford noted that “what we are creating together is a system where people will be trained with well-trained professional skills. According to him, the partnership will be of immense benefit to the people of the Northern Nigeria that do not get the attention they deserve from the media and international community.