Nsa Gill, Calabar  THE authorities of the National Youth Service Corps NYSC in Cross River State have denied reports that have gone viral on social media, claiming a JSS 2 students impregnated a corps member in Cross River State. A statement on Sunday, signed by the Head, Press & Public Relations Unit, Abdullahi Yuguda for the State Coordinator, Eddy Megwa noted that “the attention of the National Youth Service Corps, Cross River State has been drawn to a malicious publication making the rounds in the social media, alleging that a Female Corps Member was impregnated by a teenage boy (student) in the state.” “To put the records straight, there is nothing as such in Cross River as claimed by the unknown writer. It is only meant to malign the reputation and integrity of the scheme and the public perception of our corps members. The national youth Service Corps is a reputable organisation that is very proud of her Corps Members because of their high level of discipline and responsibility and therefore cannot be involved in such a shameful act”. “For the avoidance of doubt, the authorities of NYSC at Local, Zonal and State levels never received any report of such formally or informally”. “The said news is the handiwork of fake news hawkers who derive joy in seeking attention or traffic to their websites, at the expense of protecting journalistic code of ethics.” “Embarrassingly the originators of the news failed to state the source of the news rather was dwelling on imaginary school, JSS student and Corps Member”. “Worthy of note is the fact that NYSC has a laid down procedure for approaching matters on Corps Discipline and Reward. But as at the time of fielding this rejoinder, no Corps Member in Cross River State is connected with such negative Act”. He statement called on the general public to dismiss and disregard such jaundice report, adding that “Management of the Scheme in Cross River State advises the authors and originators of such callow write up to retract same and henceforth, desist from manufacturing fake news with the intention of deflating the reputation of the NYSC scheme but rather pay attention to the numerous selfless services rendered to Cross River communities by Members of the National Youth Service Corps.” Meanwhile, Corp members serving in the State have confirmed the receipt of the newly implemented monthly federal allowance of N33, 000. A cross-section of them interviewed over the weekend at the state secretariat of Corps in Calabar expressed strong gratitude to the federal government for implementing the promise made some months back. Rafia Mosheed Balogun, serving with a private radio station in the state, said “I must confess it was quite shocking because we have always been hearing the news for some time that it has been increased or that it is going to be increased but month after months it did not come. It’s been a while we have been hearing the news and receiving the money around 9.am on Friday morning in my Union Bank account was wow! They have actually paid. It has come to reality. So I am actually very privileged that it was in my set, my batch that it actually came to reality.” She added, “I just want to encourage other corps members out there to actually believe and trust in our government. We know that our President in working, we know that our Director-General is working; we just have to be patient to see the fruition of their promises. Kudos to the federal government, kudos to our Director General, Kudos to our State Coordinator, we know they are doing many things and we want them to do so much more so that we can be beneficiaries of everything.” Asked how she would utilize the increment, from N19, 800 to N33, 000, she said, “even when I was receiving the N19, 800 I was saving a little. Off course, with N33, 000, I will save more. And I believe the money will help some of us that are entrepreneurs to invest and expand in our enterprise.” Another corps member, David Godwin said “Yes, I have also received it. Got it today. When I woke up, I saw the alert on my phone and I was so excited that the federal government actually kept to her words. We have actually been anticipating it for a long time but the government implementing it is a thing of joy because I believe that I will be able to implement some plans and ideas I had in mind. I will be able to enlarge my capacity in terms of attending some programmes such as the Project Management Programme etc. The President is a man of his words and I say thank you to him and to our Director-General (NYSC).” He disclosed that he was deployed to the Cross River State Ministry of Lands and Housing and that no corps member is receiving any allowance from the state government but that he “hopes that with this, the state government will actually hear our voice and attend to our needs. We will be very happy if the state government can also motivate us in terms of some level of allowances. It will be some form of encouragement and motivation for us.” Another Corps member, Oni Abiodun Gabriel, serving with the state government also confirmed receipt of the increased federal monthly allowance to corps members; N33, 000 but regretted that the state government was not giving any allowance to corps members. “I was with my gaiter when I got the alert and it inspired me to play and compose more songs.” The State Coordinator of NYSC in Cross River, Eddy Megwa collaborated the mode of the corps member, saying “they are so excited about the increment from N19, 800 t N33, 000 and it is big news for them. You will not understand the pains we go through as officials managing the young ones when they don’t have money in their pocket. “We are also excited that the federal government has decided to motivate them. I am sure they are ready to put in their best. As it is often said, to whom much is given, much is expected”. “I want to use this opportunity to call on the state government to take a queue from what the Federal Government is doing. Constitutionally, it is the Federal Government that paid the monthly allowance of corps members and the employers; in this instance, the state government employ most of them in Cross River. It is expected that they should give them something in lieu of accommodation and transportation. It is done in other states of the federation. Cross River is a foremost state that everybody wishes to come and visit and possibly stay and enjoy the tourism endowment, we need our corps members to be happy. They are ambassadors of a sort to the state when they go back or travel out. So I call on the state government through the honourable commissioner for youths and sports to send message to the youth-friendly and amiable governor, to please follow suit as the federal government has done and ensure that something is paid to the corps members serving in the state government as transport and in lieu of accommodation as soon as possible.”