 IT has been observed that a lot of people cannot identify or differentiate the various insurance services providers we have in Nigeria. Several times prospects talk to the wrong people. However, it is important you understand this if you want to enjoy your relationship with any of them.  I called them insurance services providers because not all of them are referred to as insurance companies and here in Nigeria, we have the various categories as classified in the table below: These are companies licenced by the regulator (in this case NAICOM) to underwrite or transact only life businesses and nothing more. Note that Life Assurance policies include policies such as term assurance, wholelife, education endowment, key man, mortgage protection, credit life, annuity and grouplife. Non-life companies can also be referred to as general insurance companies. They are meant to underwrite only non-life policies. Examples of non-life Insurance policies are motor, fire, burglary, money, marine, goods-in-transit, professional indemnity, public liability, bonds, aviation, personal accident, Combined-all-risks, machinery breakdown. They are licenced to underwrite both life and non-life policies. This means they combine both policies in (1) and (2) above. These companies are licenced to underwrite Health Insurance only and they work in partnership with hospitals. I will say they are the intermediaries between hospitals and enrollees. They operate at the State, Zonal or National levels. When you enroll with them, they give you an identity card which is the evidence of your enrolment. You must ask for the card. NSITF is a government institution established under the Employees’ compensation Act. The organization is committed to the welfare of employees within the Federal Republic of Nigeria. You can contact them via their website www.nsitf.gov.ng. For you to know the capacity of your insurance service provider and to be sure the company is strong, you may need to add the following: (a)          Request for operating licence issued by NAICOM (for insurance companies) and NHIS (for HMOs). Note that NSITF is the only organization established by government, for social insurance. So there is no need for any confirmation on the strength and reliability. (b)          Request for audited financial report for insurance companies. (c)           In case the risk is very high, request for evidence of reinsurance arrangement (this will be explained in future article). This is only applicable to insurance companies. (d)          Check the list of licenced insurance companies released on NAICOM’s website (www.naicom.gov.ng). (e)          Check the list of licenced Health Management Organisations from NHIS website (www.nhis.gov.ng/hmo-contacts). Be sure you are dealing with HMO that is reputable to avoid a situation in which you will be rejected by the hospital. (f)           Know the areas the company covers whether it is State, Zonal or National.