 Recently, the Lagos State government banned tricycles and motor cycles in part of the state and this is causing some restiveness in the state. Do you think that was the right thing to do? I want to correct an impression. Okada wasn’t banned in Lagos state. There is a law that was passed by the Lagos State House of Assembly, which former Governor Fashola assented to that restricted them from plying certain Trunk A roads in some local government areas. What the present governor has done is to enforce those laws and ask Okada not to ply those roads. It is dangerous for Okada to be plying Third Mainland Bridge, for example. He has just enforce those restrictions according to the law that was signed by Babatunde Fashola. In my constituency in Ikorodu, Okada still operate. I am sure they sill operate in a number of areas. There are only a few of the local government areas in Lagos state that Okada wont ply. I feel the empathy of people. Lagos state population has grown expenipotentially over the years and a lot of people have been used to this mode of transportation. Asking them not to operate will have some effect on them. But I also believe that the state has taken bold steps to ameliorate this discomfort. There is a new and ambitious step to further reinvigorate the water transport system and there are more buses that will be added to the fleet. I am also demanding more buses to be added to my federal constituency because there are about two million people commuting in that area per month and the mood of transportation is not adequate. So, we need more buses to ferry these people. I pride my constituency as the last frontier because it is the one that can absolve as many people as possible in Lagos metropolis. Increasingly, people go and live in Ikorodu and they take advantage of the BRT corridor we have. That huge population is being tasked in terms of getting out of Ikorodu to other part of the state. You are the Chairman of the House Committee on Defence and we are aware that the committee inherited a lot of security challenges. How would you assess the fight against insurgents so far? I will always tie development with security. I always say that you cannot kill poverty with law enforcement. Over the years, our population has grown to a level that about 70 percent of our population are youths. If you do another study, you will find out that 80 percent of that are unemployed. It is always said that the devil find work for the idle minds. So, there are bound to be security challenges because our population is growing faster than our GDP. So, how do you take care of these young people? These are young people who wake up unemployed, find out that the state is not taking care of them and infrastructure is lacking. Sometimes, you ask the question, what are some local government chairmen doing? What are the state government doing? I was told the other day that in a certain state in the north, no single road has been built in the last 16 years. That is what bred insecurity and this situation has been like that for years. So, it appear as if some political leaders have been failing their constituents thus making the Nigerian state vulnerable. What has been the government efforts to address this? The government is doing its bit. I always say that a people are rich, not because the state has money, but because the state can provide infrastructure for the people to take advantage and be rich. So, we need to increasingly rap up on our infrastructure. I can see that the Lagos/Ibadan expressway is coming up, I can see that the second Niger bridge is coming up. We can also talk of the Mambilla hydro power project. But we must quickly connect and make those things work so that our youths can take advantage of it and be rich. If we can quickly get those things up and running, it will create new opportunity for our youths. Again, power. It is said that for every 1 million people, you need 1000 megawatts. If you look at that statistics, you discover that in South Africa, they have 56 million people and have 56,000 megawatts of electricity. We are about 200 million people, with less than 3000 megawatts. So, we need to fill that gap for this generation and the next generation. Other wise, no amount of security vote can help calm down these restive youths. So, would you say we are winning the war against insurgents? I will say we are trying our best, compared to the youth population, who are vulnerable to indoctrination. We are building the blocks, but we need to quickly connect those dots so that we can win the war. It is  a gradual process and I am sure you that the security architecture that will come in place sooner than later will also help reduce the effect of insurgency. There are those who believe that the long stay of the service chiefs is affecting the morale of personnel in the armed forces and that it is time for them to go so that the stagnation that appear to be there right now will be removed. Arising from this, the House called for their sack after which you held a meeting with them. Can you tell us what is going on? The bulks stops at Mr. President’s table. He is the Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces and a General in the Army who has fought wars. We are representatives of the people. So, lawmakers whose constituencies have come under siege have the constitutional right to stand up and present their case on the floor of the house. A lot of them did with passion, emotion and empathy. The House agreed that the solution might be for these Service Chiefs to resign for new ones to come on board. The leadership took that to the President who appealed for time, gave his assurances and undertaking that in a short while, there will be improvement. So, I think it also behoves the House to give him that little window and see what can be done within the shortest possible time. We also had a meeting with the Service Chiefs and we had very frank discussion. They told us that there might be a foreign hand in what is going on. They claimed that sometimes when they kill the insurgents, they find out that most of them are not Nigerians. So, it is a very complex situation we are in, but we are not folding our arms. There are ongoing meetings that may not be disclosed here. But I want to assure Nigerians that all hands are on deck to ensure that this matter is resolved in favour of Nigeria. It is Nigeria that is at war and not the Armed Forces. So, we need to pray for our soldiers who are in the frontline. A lot of them lose their lives on a daily basis. They have families and are funded by tax payers money. So, we need to always pray for them, be on their side and help boost their morale. Arising from the suspected involvement of foreign mercenaries  would you say that the border closure is not working in the Northeast? The border closure can be better. There is an American Presidential candidate who said his sole manifesto was to wall off the United States of America. I have always ask myself whether it is possible to have an estimate of how we can wall off Nigeria? The borders are closed, yet remain porous because there is no way you can man the entire geographical footprint in Nigeria if you don’t apply technology or have a budget to do so. I believe the borders are closed, but are not closed because there are ways you can bring in goods. I believe that is also helping in increasing the arms coming into the country. There is a war going on in Libya and there is a foot part that can bring you from Libya to Nigeria. So, it could be a possibility. Recently, the House Spokesman spoke about the paucity of funds for the operation of the House. Does it mean the House is not getting enough funds from the government or the allocation is just too small? Like every other thing, monies are released in tranches. People under estimate the size of the National Assembly. Nigerians see our budget of N125 billion and divide it by 360 members and 109 Senators. But they don’t understand that the National Assembly run like a Ministry. There is a bureaucracy with Permanent Secretaries and Directors.  I believe that there are about 7000 of such people aside  the lawmakers. There is also the Nigeria Institute for Legislative Studies which is another agency under the National Assembly. So, the National Assembly also run like a Ministry because there is a bureaucracy aside the lawmakers. We also have aides that we pay. If you divide all that and do an analysis, you will find out that it is difficult to run. In view of what Nigerians are facing right now, I think that discussion can be at a later date when everything has stabilised and everybody has received their minimum wage and everybody is happy. Then, we can now start looking at how to improve the running cost of the National Assembly. Recently, Southwest Governors established the Amotekun security network and some northern youths have on their own set up what they called Shege Ka Fasa. Do you think this is the way to go? I have always said that Nigeria imported the presidential system of government and curiously left out some aspect of that system, which include state policing and community policing. What a lacuna? Every presidential system I know would have multi layer of policing. It may have been a grave mistake, but it is never late to learn and to remedy those mistakes. So, the adoption of state policing or regional policing or Amotekun is a step in the right direction.  If there is no justice, there won’t be peace and if there is no peace, there won’t be prosperity. It is a good initiative that will get our youths employed, help secure our nation and allow the nation regain its rightful place in the comity of nations. I will always say to people that Nigeria’s GDP is about $500  billion with 3000 megawatts of power and we are still the biggest economy in Africa. That is a miracle. Just imagine If we inject the appropriate megawatts of power that we need. India’s GDP is $2 trillion and they probably have 24 hours of power. If we can put things in the right shape, we will rival any country in the world. One of the agenda of the 9th House of Representatives is community engagement and we are yet to see much of this. What is happening? You know that we had to face many battles one of which is trying to reshape the budgeting circle to run from January to December. We also had to work on the deep offshore bill as well as the Finance Bill which are critical to funding the 2020 budget. We are also going to work on the constitutional amendment and I happen to represent Lagos state on that committee. So, we are gradually going to get to that community engagement. I am sure that within the next few months, you will see us engaging our communities in more practical ways that will benefit  and add value to their lives. As a ranking member of the House, can you compare the past House to what is obtainable now, considering the rubber stamp insinuations by Nigerians. The 9th Assembly put the Armed Forces as an agenda and this never happen before. That shows that we want to tackle the issue of insecurity head on. The 9th Assembly has prioritised  the welfare of Nigerians and the community engagement you talked about is something we will pursue vigorously.  The 9th Assembly has a very god relationship with the Executive without taking away our independence. Nigerians are of the view that they are not well carried along in the fight against insurgent. In the past, there was a platform organised by the National Orientation Agency and the Armed Forces to brief Nigerians on the fight against insurgents. That platform has been stopped and today, we hear all manner of fake news. I have always told my people in the Armed Forces that their strategic communication need to be improved. I will tell you a lot of things that the Armed Forces have done or are doing. From the lessons learnt from this fight against insurgents, the Armed Forces has been able to build an mrap which is a mine resistant vehicle which the Chief of Army Staff has named after an Igbo General, Ezeugo. They call it Ezeugo mrap. It is a made in Nigeria solution to importing those mraps from abroad. An mrap from abroad will probably cost you over One million dollars. The Ezeugo mrap built by DICON cost about N70 million. Six of them are already in the war theatre and the Nigerian Army has ordered another 45. That is something that need to be out there for Nigerians to know what their military is doing. You will find out that in the fullness of time, we will be exporting these mraps to Chad and other countries. Again, at some point, the Nigeria airforce wanted to buy brakes for their planes and they couldn’t get them to buy and they partnered with Innosen. So, some of the brakes the Nigeria Airforce now are using right now are locally made. The Nigeria Defence and Research Bureau developed an IED detector called fintila. The world record for it used to be 5 kilometres. They developed one that can do 50 kilometres walk. They didn’t have the facilities to develop it and so, they partner with a foreign country. Do you know that the foreign country wanted to steal that invention? We had to wade in to get it back for Nigeria. The designer of the Ezeugo mrap is a 35 year old chap. He was born in Nigeria and  studied here in Nigeria. The Innosen one was developed by a university professor. Those are things that should be communicated to Nigerians. Nigerians see soldiers punishing people, but they do much more than that. In this modern day, strategic communication should be the watch word and I think that the Nigerian Orientation Agency need to also live up to expectation. I don’t believe they are doing a good job at the moment. Soldiers all over the world are treated well. They are accorded tremendous respect. If you in America and at the airport, you will hear on the public address that the business lounge should be occupied by business class people and soldiers or veterans. 