 Suspected kidnap kingpin, Bala Hamisu (aka Wadume), will soon be charged with terrorism, murder, kidnapping and illegal arms running. Also to face the same charges are Captain Ahmed Balarabe and 18 others. The Inspector General of Police (IGP) filed a 16-count charge bordering on the above offenses against the defendants at the Federal High Court in Abuja. A source said though the matter had not yet been assigned a judge, the criminal charge, dated February 3, 2020, was filed by Simon Lough, an Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), as well as Simon Lough, Anthony Egwu and Peter Amadi, of the Legal/Prosecution Section at the Force Headquarters (FHQ) in Abuja. About six months ago, Wadume was reported to have escaped arrest with the aid of some soldiers attached to Battalion 93, Takum, led by Balarabe. The suspected kidnap kingpin escaped when the soldiers attacked the policemen, after they had arrested Wadume, leading to the death of three policemen and two civilians. Other policemen were injured in the incident. It was learnt that exhibits in the case include the written statements of the defendants, photographs of the victims, autopsy reports, six AK-47 rifles recovered from the gang, three empty shells, one live ammunition and six Volkswagen Sharon buses, as well as one (police) Toyota Hiace bus. The police accuse Wadume of conniving with Balarabe and other suspects (some still on the run) between February and April 2019 at Takum and Ibi in Taraba State. They allegedly conspired and committed felony, to wit: acts of terrorism, by attacking and kidnapping one Usman Garba (aka Mayo) at his filling station in Takum, thereby committing an offence, contrary to Section 17 of the Terrorism (Prevention) Amendment Act 2013. The defendants are also accused of possessing six AK-47 rifles and dealing in prohibited firearms, contrary to Section 27 (1)(a)(I) and (1)(b)(iii) of the Firearms Act Cap F28, Laws of the Federation, 2004. It was gathered that the prosecution will rely on the testimonies of 29 eyewitnesses. Some of the eyewitnesses, it was learnt, will testify on how Wadume and his gang abducted Garba on February 16, 2019 at Takum. The gang allegedly demanded a N200 million ransom but the family managed to raise about N106 million. The hoodlums reportedly killed the victim after collecting the money. It was also learnt that DCP Abba Kyari, CSP Baba Khali, ASP Abdulrahman Mohammed, ASP Bawa James, Inspector Habila Samuel and Inspector Ilarju Joseph are the investigating police officers in the case. They will testify in the case and tender exhibits and documents during the trial. Exhibits in the case, it was gathered, included written statements of the defendants, photographs of the victims, autopsy reports, six AK-47 rifles recovered from the gang, three empty shells, one live ammunition and six Volkswagen Sharon buses, as well as one (police) Toyota Hiace bus. Also among exhibits attached to the charge are the call logs showing the phone communication between Wadume, Balarabe and the police officers at Ibi Police Station. “They will be arraigned once a judge is assigned to the case,” a source said.