The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) has said it is intensifying its surveillance on drugs coming into the country, following the outbreak of Coronavirus in China. Its Director General, Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye, spoke on Monday in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja. “We have revamped our approach to post marketing surveillance, meaning if your drug product is approved and it is now in Wuse and Kano, the quality must be the same,” she said. The NAFDAC chief added that the agency had been able to inspect not less than 165 companies within six months between 2018 and 2019, saying inspection of product was not limited to only imported goods. Also, NAFDAC has warned Nigerians to be cautious when taking tea from roadside vendors popularly called Maishayi. Its Director-General, Prof. Adeyeye, gave the warning in an interview yesterday with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja. Adeyeye said the warning became necessary following information the agency received that Maishayi now mix intoxicating drugs in the tea prepared for customers. She named some intoxicating drugs, such as tramadol, Vieteling, Marijuana and others, adding that people could die after taking tea mixed with such drugs. “In the United States of America (U.S.A), lots of people are dying because of these medicines. How can such medicines mix with palm wine in the name of getting high in Nigeria? “There are some medicines you cannot take if you have cardiovascular problem,” she said. The NAFDAC chief said the agency would collaborate with the National Institute for Pharmaceutical Research and Development (NIPRD) to check quality medicine in orthodox and herbal medication. According to her, the idea is necessary since NIPRD specialises on research, and the purpose is to safeguard the health of the nation. Adeyeye advised Nigerians to desist from harmful medicine in the name of power enhancement in whatever area they think of. The NAFDAC chief added that the agency’s five laboratories had been accredited many times, giving them high quality with high standard. “We are going further, we want a central drug lab to be World Health Organisation (WHO) pre-qualify; we are raising our bar higher,” she said. Adeyeye said NAFDAC would continue to sensitise people against the drugs, adding that within the year, the agency would get the World Health Organisation’s (WHO’s) pre-qualified central drug lab.