 THE Ben Enwonwu Foundation in collaboration with the Society of Nigerian Artists and supported by Alliance Française /Mike Adenuga Centre Lagos, will on February 26, present the fifth edition of its monthly series of talks ‘Point of View'(POV). It will hold at Alliance Française/Mike Adenuga Centre, Ikoyi, Lagos. Among discussants for the event include the Group Head, Creative Industry, Bank of Industry, Uche C. Nwuka, Executive Secretary, MTN Foundation, MTN Nigeria Odunayo Sanya, CEO, Hatch Ideas Worldwide Yemisi Mokuolu, Managing Director, Head Sub-Saharan Africa (Ex-RSA), Bank of America Merill Lynch Yvonne Ike, Chairman First Ally Capital, Femi Akinsanya, MD/CEO Iron Capital Jubril Enakele and Partner/Leader, In-sourced Solutions for Tax, West and Central Africa PwC, Chijioke Uwaegbute. The panel will be moderated by Creative Director, Revolving Art Incubator, Jumoke Sanwo. Drawing from other creative disciplines and such diverse sectors as government, science and technology, POV interrogates the evolving role of the visual arts in addressing major issues affecting Africa and the rest of the world by impacting policy, raising awareness, advocating for change and inspiring action. The fifth edition of ‘Point of View’ (POV 5) themed ‘Funding for the Visual Arts: Public and Private Sector Partnership’ examines recent developments in public and private sector funding support for the creative arts in Nigeria. High on the agenda is the Creative Industry Financing Initiative (CIFI), a collaboration between the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Bankers’ Committee that seeks to improve access to long-term, low-cost financing for entrepreneurs and investors in the creative and information technology sectors in Nigeria. Presentations and discussions will revolve around the seeming exclusion of the visual arts from such policies and their overall expected impact in stimulating economic growth, capacity building, skill acquisition and job creation. In funding and strengthening policies that will transform Africa, the event will also serve to examine and compare models and partnerships in the United Kingdom and elsewhere. 