 Oyo State Government on Friday said that two suspected cases of corona virus in the state speculated in some media reports tested negative. The two cases, according to the government, did not even test positive to any of coronavirus or Lassa fever, and the suspects who were earlier quarantined are improving health-wise. The government also said the state was on high alert following the confirmed case in neighbouring Lagos State. The government spoke through the state’s Commissioner for Health, Dr Bashir Bello, while responding to questions from journalists during a press conference to update the media on the efforts of the government at ensuring that the virus did not enter into the state. Saying the press conference became imperative in view of the proximity of Lagos to Ibadan, Bello said the state had deployed adequate resources to its facilities in case of unforeseen circumstances. Stressing that no case of the corona or Lassa fever virus had been reported in the state, the commissioner said the state had enlisted the support and collaboration of the Nigerian Army through the 2 Division, Ojoo where a quarantine facility had been set up in the case of any reported case or outbreak. Noting that all state health facilities had been put on high alert, he enjoined private based health facilities to also have a high index of suspicion for all cases of unexplainable fever and upper respiratory infections. Speaking further, Bello implored residents of the state to prioritise hygienic practices of regular hand washing with soap and water and ensuring that anyone with fever is promptly taken for medical attention. He also urged residents to reduce frequency of face touching, regularly disinfect surfaces and keep social distance with anyone sneezing or coughing. He said: “As for the suspected case, the person is now improving. We know that a case will have to be taken into study and it was discovered that it is nothing related to Coronavirus or Lassa fever. “What we saw at Oyo was nothing near Lassa or Coronavirus. We are ready as we don’t know who would have travelled in and out of Ibadan. “For the least symptoms of respiratory distress, we give them that maximum attention and we treat it like a case. A single case is considered an epidemic. That is why with the single case in Lagos, all other neighbouring states are on high alert. “What we are trying to do is that going by our proximity to Lagos and the high level of transaction between these two urban centres, we are being very prepared because no one can tell. “There is freedom of movement enshrined in the constitution and we cannot, for this reason, restrict movement of individuals. “I wish to reassure the people of the state that there is currently no outbreak of Coronavirus in the state.” In his own remarks, the Chairman, UCH Committee on Response to Emergency and Outbreak of Disease, Prof. Kayode Osungbade, noted that from the caliber of people at the press conference, the state was prepared to tackle the virus as all stakeholders continued to come together and especially because a case has been confirmed in Nigeria, which necessitated the press conference. He added that with the presence of all the stakeholders at the conference, including the military, the state government, the UCH, private facilities, Officials of Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), among others, is indicative of the readiness and commitment of the relevant stakeholders to tackle the challenge of any outbreak.  