Good news: The Federal Government of Nigeria, with the United States and the Government of Jersey Island, just signed a tripartite deal to bring back, to Nigeria, US $308 million, part of funds stolen by the late Head of State, Gen. Sani Abacha. Not so good news: the deal comes with galling conditions, which have affronted the national pride of not a few, particularly the bit about Nigeria facing stiff penalties, including a forced refund, should the returned funds be re-looted. That has angered many people, for the simple reason that Nigeria is a sovereign country that should take no orders from other nations, no matter how powerful or influential. That feeling of national pride is well taken. It is a natural response in the circumstance. Still, if a former No. 1 is credited with such humongous sleaze, a commander-in-chief turned plunderer-in-chief, then Nigerians should learn to swallow their pride; and put systems in place to avert such grand larcenies in the future. This agreement, therefore, appears the shock therapy preceding learning probity the hard way. But the good thing, even from the galling agreement, is that the returned loot is tied to specific spine infrastructure, spread across Nigeria’s original three regions: Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, Nigeria’s busiest freeway and gateway, from Lagos, to other parts of the country (West); the Second Niger Bridge, now under construction, after almost a decade of procrastination (East); and the Abuja-Kano road, a 375-kilometre dual carriageway, that issues from the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), to the heart of the North via Kano, its prime commercial capital (North). Excerpts from the fund repatriation protocol: “The projects on which the funds will be expended will be administered by the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority and independently audited.  The Federal Republic of Nigeria will establish a monitoring team to oversee the implementation of the projects and to report regularly on progress. The Nigerian government, in consultation with other parties, will also engage civil society organisations, who have expertise in substantial infrastructure projects, civil engineering, anti-corruption compliance, anti-human trafficking compliance, and procurement to provide additional monitoring and oversight.” It is to the credit of the Muhammadu Buhari Presidency that it swallowed the bitter pill of the tough agreement, despite being adjudged by the rotten conduct of past governments. But then, that is why government is a continuum, taking assets with liabilities. Beyond regime vanity, agreeing to channel the whole of the loot to critical road infrastructure is sound public policy that has at heart the wellbeing of the Nigerian masses, raped too often by unconscionable government policies. Besides, decayed infrastructure is one of the very open manifestations of the frenzied stealing of the past. It is meet then that the returned loot is infused into righting the debacle of massive heist of public funds. The tough conditions could also point the way to a future standard monitoring procedure of government projects. Shorn of its adversarial hue, it would appear a model in public-private sector-pressure groups joint monitoring of public projects, to ensure the tax payer gets maximum value from every kobo spent. That has the prospect of building a systemic valve against corruption. Given the havoc free-wheeling sleaze has wrought on the land, it can only be a win-win for everyone. Still, we must warn: such manual should not be basis for wayward suits and frivolous campaigns, cynically probing the letters of the agreement but wilfully ignoring its spirit, and therefore wasting precious time. The Abacha loot has offered timely infusion of funds into these critical public projects. Let’s go deliver them, to the relief of long-suffering Nigerian masses.