TOBA AGBOOLA  The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has called for increased vigilance, resilience, grit, discipline, patriotic commitment and innovative solutions by the Federal Government, security agencies and citizens to bring the reign of madness and impunity in Northeast to a conclusive end. The congress also commiserated with the government and the entire people of Borno State on the recent gruesome aby the Boko Haram terrorists at Auno Town which is 24 kilometers from Maiduguri metropolis along the Maiduguri – Damaturu Highway. NLC in a letter addressed to the state governor, Babagana Umaru Zulum, signed by the President of the NLC, Comrade Ayuba Wabba said this is the umpteenth time that insurgents would be attacking innocent commuters and villagers along this very important road artery in North Eastern Nigeria. Wabba said: “This attack is clearly aimed at undermining the good efforts that your administration and our security forces are making to bring the current wave of terrorism and insurgency in the Northeast to an end and to restore the peace. “At this rate, we have a duty to urge the government and our security services not to be discouraged. It is also important for government and our security forces to seriously consider adopting an entirely new approach to the fight against terrorism and insurgency especially in a manner that would break the spinal cord of those bent on unleashing mayhem on our people, their livelihoods and our collective sanity.  It has now become totally unacceptable to allow blood sucking marauders to operate for an uninterrupted period of up to four hours without repulsion by our security forces. We must now draw the line.” Ayuba said the adoption of a new security strategy to the anti-terrorism fight has become acutely necessary given the grave danger that a much more prolonged insurgency portends for the socio-economic survival of our people. He said there are already fears that the recent upscale in violence along the Maiduguri-Damaturu corridor could be geared at cutting off this critical transportation artery and thus isolating Maiduguri from the rest of the country. “The humanitarian impact in terms of the supply of food and other basic life supporting amenities can only be imagined. “Your Excellency, while we salute your efforts in supporting our security forces to end this carnage, and bring peace cum accelerated development to the good people of Borno State, we call for increased vigilance, resilience, grit, discipline, patriotic commitment and innovative solutions by the Federal government, security agencies and citizens to bring this reign of madness and impunity in Northe8ast Nigeria to a conclusive end,” he said. According to reports, this attack which took place on February 9 at about 9.30pm left more than 30 people dead and 18 vehicles burnt.