 The Socio Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has carried its campaign to the door step of Nigerian students with an admonition that they should stand up against all forms of corruption. It enjoined the students, who are campus reporters join in the campaign against corruption in order to make the country a better place and improve her image amongst nations The Executive Director of SERAP Director, Adetokunbo Mumuni,  stated this while speaking yesterday at  a public awareness and advocacy workshop on Anti-Corruption Social Norms and the Roles of Students and Tertiary Institutions in Nigeria held at Radisson Blu, GRA, Ikeja Mumuni said that SERAP, had been at the vanguard against corruption since its formation in 2004. He remarked that as students and campus journalists, they have a role to play in combating corruption adding that they should continue to demand that Nigeria must become better and be made great for the present and future generations. He lamented that corruption had hindered the country from attaining its potential. He regretted that in spite of efforts by the Federal Governments and its agencies to combat corruption, Nigeria still ranked 144 in corruption out of 180 countries and  27 out of 100, based on Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index of 2018. Speaking on the report that was launched, the SERAP executive director said that a national survey report of 2,549 respondents across the geopolitical zones revealed that corruption was driven by entrenched social norms. “The undermining thrust of the report is that factors impeding the efficacy of laws, policies and institutions in the fight against corruption are to not found in the laws. “The factors are found in the larger societal matrix of norms and institutions, which form a key part of the corruption ecosystem in the country. “The environment, thus constituted, is either conducive to, or largely tolerant of corruption. “The report, therefore, suggests that for current anti-corruption interventions and efforts to be successful, they must engage broadly with the environment by instigating social change,” he said. After sharing their experience and frustration in reporting graft in their respective institutions, Mumuni a urged the campus reporters to report the truth always stressing that said truth is the only defence against defamation. he urged them not to fear school authorities in the habit of threatening them with suspension when they publish graft in their campuses “As long as what you publish is the truth, SERAP as an organization, will fight for you in the court of law. Truth is the only defence against defamation”, he said. Ms Oluwatosin Alagbe, Deputy Director of the Premium Times Centre for Investigative Journalism, also urged the campus reporters to report the truth always. Alagbe regretted  that corrupt practice had become an acceptable norm in the country. According to Alagbe, students had the responsibility of becoming advocates of attitudinal change to have a country that they would be proud of. SERAP,  at the workshop, released a 68-page document titled, “Nigeria: Anti-corruption Social Norms Report” which x-rays corruption perception in the country. The event also marked the formation of a social platform by participant at the advocacy workshop for sharing experience and other issues on corruption.