Despite its enormous contributions to the national economy, the telecoms sector still operates in less transparent manner resulting in losses to the regulator and the carriers, writes LUCAS AJANAKU. Like a damned river suddenly losing its fetters, the liberalisation of the telecoms sector about two decades ago has unleashed development into the national economy. According to figures from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), the sector’s contribution to the nation’s gross domestic product (GDP) in fourth quarter (Q4) of last year rose to 13.8 per cent. Similarly, the Executive Vice Chairman/CEO, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof Garba Dambatta, last year said total investments into the sector reached over $70 billion. He said a huge percentage of these investments came into the economy by way of Foreign Direct Investment (FDI). He said: “Since the Digital Mobile Licences (DML) were issued 16 years ago, investment in the sector has hit about $70billion from a mere $50million in 2001. Most of these investments are FDIs.’’ According to him, Nigeria with a population of about 170 million is a preferred investment destination in Africa. Dambatta said: “With over 150 million active subscribers, in the voice segment, over 102 per cent teledensity and a little over 92 million internet connections, Nigeria is indeed a place to invest. “Although we have made very modest progress in the sector, we still need to deepen investments to make broadband pervasive in the country.” In job creation, the President, Association of Telecoms Companies of Nigeria (ATCON), Olusola Teniola said several hundreds of direct and indirect jobs have been created by the sector. His counterpart, the chairman, Association of Licensed telecoms Companies of Nigeria (ALTON), Gbenga Adebayo agrees no less with him. Adebayo said aside the jobs that have been created, the sector has become an enabler to other sectors of the economy. The use of Unstructured Supplementary Data  (USSD) for cash transfer in pursuit of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) financial inclusion and powering the automated teller machines (ATMs) of the banks  is one of the many areas where the telecoms revolution has had a defining impact. TMForum report But despite all these, a new report by TMForum has shown that the sector still operates less transparently, a development that has eroded the margin of the telcos and also that of the NCC by way of Annual Operating Levy (AOL)  TMForum and Communications Fraud Control Association (CFCA), said based on various survey reports, they have  computed the estimated revenue and fraud losses for the regulatory agency. TMForum is the premier international association for fraud risk management, fraud prevention and profitability control through education, information sharing and collaboration involving domain experts and law enforcement entities. The Forum provides an open, agile and collaborative environment that enables communications service providers and digital service providers to rapidly transform their business operations, IT systems and ecosystems to capitalise on the opportunities of our ever-evolving digital world. “As a neutral, non-profit member organisation, we represent over 850 member companies generating $2 trillion in revenue and serving five billion customers across 180 countries,” the group said. Telemanagement Forum (TM Forum) is the global industry association that drives collaboration and collective problem-solving to maximise the business success of communication and digital service providers and their ecosystem of suppliers. According to the report, estimated revenue leakage for carriers on the continent at five per cent stands at $0.29billion while global fraud leakages at 1.27 per cent amounted to $0.074 billion. It estimated that cash loss to government through Value Added Tax (VAT) at five per cent stood at $18.2 million while Income Tax Return (ITR) contribution at five cents per minute at 150 minutes per month translated to $75million, bringing total government losses to $93.2million. On revenue side, it said overall revenue was $5.805billion while revenue leakage at five per cent amounted to $0.29billion while global fraud leakages as per CFCA at 1.27per cent is $0.074 billion.The report was however silent on the estimated under reporting by mobile network operators (MNOs) while overall revenue leakages amounted $363.97million. AOL which is 2.5per cent of total revenue of telcos loss to NCC  stood at $9.1million. While the report had put MTN’s revenue at $2.886 billion in 2018, that of Airtel was $1.106billion. Globacom’s 2013 revenue was $1.178billion while that of 9mobile for 2016 was put $0.635billion making the total revenue to reach $5.805billion. It would be recalled that anti-corruption group, Transparency International (TI), had published its report titled: Transparency in Corporate Reporting – Assessing the World’s Largest Telecommunications Companies 2015 Report which suggested that companies in the telecoms sector should be doing more to increase their levels of corporate disclosure and mitigate their anti-corruption risk. TI identified the telecoms sector as particularly vulnerable to corruption risk given it is a regulated industry, which requires government licences/approvals and involves significant capital outlays. The risk is amplified given that many of the key players are looking to expand into high-risk jurisdictions with underdeveloped anti-corruption regimes. It considers the key areas of risk for such companies to include: the licensing process; market regulation and price-setting; the supply chain; and third-party management and customer services. But in a sector estimated to be worth around $2 trillion, some may consider the potential rewards outweigh the corruption risks. TI said: “Organisational transparency is important for many reasons, not least because company structures can be made deliberately opaque for the purpose of hiding the proceeds of corruption.”