 ACCORDING to  media  reports  Professor Doyin  Salami, Chairman of the Nigerian Presidential Economic  Advisory Council –  PEAC –  led  members of the Council to present a report  this week  to the Nigerian President in which they  highlighted the lack of synergy between various  Ministries and government  agencies  in governance in Nigeria. They   noted that this has affected  economic   growth  and government needed to create the necessary  conducive environment to attract foreign investment.  This  PEAC   observation  came   just  as I was about to write on the biggest news of   this week which was the acquittal  of US President Donald Trump  on  two  charges of abuse  of power  and obstruction of   Congress by the US Senate. Trump’s  consequent  celebration and indignation at what he labeled   an unwarranted and unfair trial  and  the opinion of the  liberal billionaire Soros at the World Economic Forum in Davos  in   which  he castigated the two leaders of the US and China as authoritarian   on the management of their two key economies,  attract our attention today.  Soros observed that Trump  has overheated the American economy and that it would soon explode  while   he    said   President Xi of China  has cooled  Chinese growth  and was  using Artificial  lntelligence    to  beat  his people into line as   a dictator.  Soros  then    promised to form a global ‘network university ‘  to enshrine  ‘critical thinking in a world beset  by intolerance ‘  and  he promised to see that through  in his life time and he is over 80 already. These  events and issues   then,  form the kernel  of our discussion today. It  is necessary  to say   here   that all  these  events have an economic base. Of  course  most  world leaders want  their  economies to put food on the table and are unhappy  when the economy is not performing on  full  steam and as planned. It  is therefore understandable that the Nigerian President thanked the PEAC  for   the synergy  and foreign investment  advice  and even went on to adhere to the body’s advice to meet more often in six weeks and not the present quarterly  meetings. I  am  sure  that the PEAC report  by inference includes advice on security as  a  key  element  in creating an enabling environment for investment and business  generally  and   internally in the nation. Here  too the issue of synergy between the  various institutions in our security apparatus  can  not be overemphasized. Critical  intelligence should be shared confidentially  and professionally and unhealthy competition or playing to the gallery to  please  the powers     that  be,  should  be avoided in the overall  national  interest and security. Economic  and  governmental synergy  advised by the PEAC is  a type of strategic management that has cohesion and synthesis   as broad  objectives to   achieve set government goals and objectives  More  importantly  when it functions efficiently , 2 plus 2  will  not necessarily be 4  but can  be 5. In  which  case  the whole  can  be bigger than the sum of its parts.  Federal  Ministers meanwhile   could   be asked to  make proposals or show evidence of successful coordination   or  potential  ones with other government  agencies in  furtherance of the achievement of government objectives and goals.  Perhaps a Co-ordinating  Minister like  the former Finance Minister from the World Bank,  Okonjo   Iweala needs  to be appointed urgently  by government to  facilitate the needed synergy  to stimulate the sort of growth needed  by our very  sizeable population  in order   to achieve  the  promise   of positive growth and change   that swept  this government to power in 2015  and 2019. Again,  the US  economy’s good performance  has been one main reason Trump’s  supporters  have  never   listened to his critics or think  of deserting him  as their  leader. Indeed at his  State of the Union Address he boasted about the booming US economy  during his tenure. This was barely 24 hours to his Impeachment and his  approval  rating rose to the highest  on the eve of his Impeachment . He  has since celebrated his impeachment with newspaper headlines that  boomed ’ Trump  Acquitted ‘.  Just   like    President Harry Truman displayed  the headline ‘ Dewey Wins  ‘ in  the presidential  election that Truman  won when nobody  expected him to.  I  think Trump  is entitled  to his  celebration  and  indignation given his vindication by the Senate . As  to if that indignation is righteous is a matter of  opinion.  But if you  consider that if he had not been acquitted by the Senate  he would  have gone into political oblivion by   now,  then  you  can overlook  his  celebration of  the danger  of  removal  from  office that he has just escaped from. We  now  go to George  Soros  observations on both Trump  and Xi both presidents  of  the US  and  China  respectively. Calling them  authoritarian   may  not be strictly   correct.  Indeed Trump  cannot  be said to be authoritarian given  the fact  that the US constitution is a presidential  one based on  separation of powers.  If  Trump was  authoritarian  he would  not waited   to be impeached  by  the US House of  Representatives which  literally stigmatized  him  as unfit  to lead  on the two  charges of abuse of power and obstruction of justice   before impeaching him . But  for the principle of separation of powers in the US constitution the Impeachment  Managers worked  hard   till  voting  time  at  the  Senate  when  the resolute  House Majority  leader said the   charade  and abuses ‘must  stop  today ‘  as  the senate was created to famously   observed ‘stop such  recklessness ‘.  So  even  if Trump  wanted to be authoritarian the US constitution has firmly tied  his hand and that of  any  US president  in that  regard. The  same however  can  not be said  of  President Xi  of  China  who  is  President  for  life and is using technology  to out run and outpace  the US  economy  as the leading economy  in the world today . Before  the coronavirus  the Chinese economy was running   full  steam under the control of the Communist  Party of China that  leads the Chinese nation  under the command of President Xi. It  has propped  up  phone giant Huawei  such that  that  company  is ahead of the US and  indeed  the EU  over the emergence  of 5G  technology.  America  has  been  rattled by this such that the US Secretary of State  recently announced that  the US  will  buy stakes in  two  leading  European phone companies  namely  Nokia  and Ericsson   to catch up with the support that the Chinese government was giving Huawei  financially  to  have an edge on 5G technology  globally.  Again  in China President Xi  has used  the fight  against  corruption to consolidate  power and recently  the Head of Interpol, a Chinese leader  was jailed in China for  embezzling 2m dollars and for  his opulent  life style even though the wife in asylum in Paris, France alleged that the charges  were politically  motivated. Anyway  Soros  has always  been  a champion of   human rights  and  Open  Society    and   I really look forward to how and where his promised university network on  critical  thinking   in  a world  obsessed  with  Intolerance  which  was so  much  at  play  in the Impeachment trial of the US president,  will  be like .Once  again  long live the Federal Republic of Nigeria. 