By Adekunle Yusuf  The Lagos State AIDS Control Agency (LSACA) has just completed a training-the-trainers programme on HIV awareness specifically targeted at the people with visual and hearing impairment. In the two-day event, which was the fifth in the series for the deaf and dumb, 250 participants, who were picked from the 20 local government areas in the state, were empowered with information and awareness about HIV/AIDS, its modes of transmission and how each person can play safe by avoiding risky sexual behaviours. It was organised in conjunction with the state office of disability affairs and civil society organisations. The Chief Executive Officer LSACA, Dr. Monsurat Adeleke, said sensitisation/training was specifically packaged for the vulnerable segments of the state population because leaving such people behind would jeopardise the state’s efforts to stem the tide against HIV. She added that empowering the ‘special people’ was in fulfillment of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s directive that information, awareness and enlightenment about HIV/AIDS should reach every segment of the state population. This, she said, would help to actualise the dream of the state government towards strengthening the HIV response among Lagosians and ridding the populace of the deadly virus. Besides the sensitisation on various modes of transmission of HIV and misconceptions about the epidemic, the trainers also learnt the importance of HIV counselling and testing, and dangers inherent in HIV stigma and discrimination. The event also featured a session for counselling and testing for participants. While providing rationale for targeting the vulnerable communities, Adeleke said it is a fact of life that the deaf and blind, like other people, indulge in unprotected sex with one another, which makes it imperative that a sensitisation programme be designed to take care of them in terms of informing and educating them.  “They are at-risk population where a lot of indiscriminate sexual activities go on among them. People pay them pittance after sexual intercourse. You can imagine if you don’t nip this in the bud, it can become something unpleasant in these communities,”she said. She added that Sanwo-Olu is passionate about empowering the vulnerable, especially persons with disabilities to engender inclusive development, saying the state is not ready to leave no one behind. “The hearing community takes advantage of the poverty in the country and among the deaf women and girls to lure them into having unprotected sex with them, which further exposes them to the risk of contracting HIV/AIDS. It is, therefore, important that these communities are carried along in the state HIV response for them to know the basic facts about HIV, prevention of mother to child transmission, universal safety precautions and linkages as a strategy to aid prevention. It is a train-the-trainers’ programme. When these trainers go back to their communities, they are expected to cascade the knowledge down to others,” she noted. This will assist in achieving 90-90-90 initiative, which means that 90 percent of the people living with HIV should know their status; 90 percent of those that know their status should be made to access antiretroviral therapy (ART) and 90 per cent of those accessing ART should achieve viral suppression so that total eradication of HIV in the state by 2030 can become a reality.