Over 150 shops and properties worth millions of naira were on Sunday razed by fire at the Kpirikpiri Market, in Abakaliki, the Ebonyi State capital. The inferno was said to have started by 2.00pm when woshippers were returning from church. The market is the second largest market in the state capital, after Abakpa Main Market. Commissioner for Internal Security and Border Peace, Mr. Stanley Okoro Emegha and Special Assistant (SA) to the Governor on Internal Security (South) Mr. Chika Nwangele, who were at the scene of the fire when our correspondent visited, described the incident as a disaster. Emegha explained that fire service station in the state was informed of the fire so late that before they could come it was too late to quench the fire. Emegha said that their suspicion was that some people set a nearby bush around the market on fire and left it or lost control of the fire hence it spread to the market. He said it took swift intervention of Neighbourhood Watch, an internal security outfit and youths in the area to help stop the fire from razing down the whole market. The Commissioner noted that the nature of buildings in the market did not help matters. He noted that the state government would no doubt come up with measures to cushion the effect of the loss on the victims. Mr Nwangele said he had to forcefully leave his church service to mobilise the Neighbourhood Watch members and other youths who aided in quenching of the fire. He said the quick response of the Commissioner, Emegha also helped in mobilisation of more youths as they had to resort to use of detergents to fight the fire. The SA said that they had to ensure that thieves did not take advantage of the confusion to steal the secured goods. Some of the victims could not even explain the situation as they wept profusely but for Mr. John Nwoke who said that all his goods were lost to inferno, more so that he just bought new stocks three days ago, most of them on credit. Mrs. Ofoke Julian, another victim said it was the end of the road for her and her family which last year buried her husband. She appealed to the state, federal government and other agencies to help them out of the situation. She lamented that even the few goods they could secure from the fire were carted away by hoodlums. She said that it could have been Indian hemp smokers or those that burn the bush around the market to catch rats that caused the fire outbreak.