In the heat of the debate on the political restructuring of Nigeria in 2017, the 8th Senate set up a constitutional (1999) review committee with the main objective of effecting the devolution of powers from the federal government to the federating units – the states. Thus, although the review committee came up about 23 separate bills, the devolution of powers bill was the most talked about. The target was to specifically reduce the number of items in the exclusive legislative list, which currently stands at 68, while increasing that of the concurrent list which is 12. This was against the backdrop of the general belief that the major fault of the Nigerian version of federalism is the imbalance in legislative powers in favour of the central (federal) government. This imbalance is also one of the major points raised by advocates of restructuring. However, rabid pro-restructuring pundits saw the constitutional review as nothing but a waste of time and resources. In their view, the 1999 constitution is so flawed that no review, however well-intentioned and rigorously pursued, can give the country the required legal framework to make progress in any front as a nation. An entirely new constitution, they said, was what Nigeria required. Let us see how some knowledgeable Nigerians put it. Chief Bisi Akande, pioneer chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and former governor of Osun State, described the 1999 constitution as “Nigeria’s greatest misadventure since Lugard’s amalgamation in 1914″. Akande added that “the 1999 constitution can never be beneficially reviewed … all the angels coming from heaven cannot make the constitution work for the progress of Nigeria. It should only be scrapped as a bad relic of military mentality…” (Vanguard August 11, 2017). Constitutional lawyer, Mike Ozekhome, said: “The virus bedevilling our constitution cannot be cured or remedied by amendments… what Nigeria needs is a brand new constitution…” (Daily Sun August 2, 2017). While giving an insight on the apparent incongruity between constitutional amendments and the call for restructuring, another constitutional lawyer and scholar, Ben Nwabueze, said: “Restructuring is not a matter that can be implemented by the amendment of the 1999 constitution. It imperatively requires a new constitution adopted or approved by the people at a referendum. It is sad that while the clamour for restructuring is reaching a crescendo and sweeping across the country, the National Assembly is still regaling us with talks about constitutional amendment and is buttressing its position that the 1999 constitution can only be amended or altered … but cannot be abolished and replaced by a new constitution… The view that the 1999 constitution can only be amended or altered but cannot be completely abolished… is erroneous because it fails to take account of the fact that the 1999 constitution is only a schedule to a decree, Decree 24 of 1999. The decree is an existing law under section 315 of the 1999 constitution and like all existing laws within the federal competence, can be repealed by the National Assembly. Upon the repeal of the decree, the 1999 constitution completely disappears from existence” (This Day, August, 5, 2015). Another legal luminary, Femi Falana, spoke in a similar vein: “The 1999 Constitution was erected and signed by General Adulsalami Abubakar. The document is a schedule to Decree No 24 of 1999. When we demanded for a popular and democratic constitution produced by a Sovereign National Conference, the Abubakar Junta said that it had no time to convince the conference. It was agreed on all hands that a new constitution would be produced upon the restoration of democratic rule” (The Punch, August 7, 2017). Itse Sagay, a well-known legal expert, scholar and current chairman of the presidential advisory committee or corruption, had described the 1999 constitution as a “mistake”. He said: “The mistake of the 1997 constitution which was made by the military and not by the people is to assume that every Nigerian has the same social and historical background and so there should be a very tight federal government and very weak states. The 1999 constitution turns a blind eye to these major social and ethnic divergence in Nigeria, forgetting that all the various ethnic groups were independent when the British came … This is why there is so much tension in the land … The federal government is … too powerful, therefore putting us together in a sort of tight embrace… So, this is what the people are asking for. They are asking for increased power, increased fiscal federalism whilst interacting with members of the same country in unity. That is why I think the 1999 constitution was a mistake drafted and foisted on Nigeria…” (Vanguard, August 11, 2017). In spite of the views expressed over the needlessness of a constitutional amendment then, the 8th Senate went ahead with it. The argument was that in the absence of any immediate plans to write an entirely new constitution, amending the existing one became the only way to begin to address some of the issues agitating the minds of Nigerians, particularly in the areas of revenue sharing, devolution of power and the Land Use Act. It was also for this reason that some political leaders, together with the some members of the intelligentsia in the country, decided to support the constitutional review exercise of the 8th Senate, at least as a stop-gap measure. But unfortunately, the exercise ended up in a fiasco. On July 26, 2017, the two chambers of the National Assembly failed to vote in favour of the devolution of powers bill to the total surprise and chagrin of Nigerians. Out of 72 votes required on the floor of the senate to have the bill passed, the red chambers posted only 48 (in favour); while in the House of Representatives, only 210 votes were garnered out of 240 required. As expected, the defeat of the devolution of powers bill was greeted with angst and condemnation across the country. In an editorial commentary on August 4, 2017, The Punch, one of Nigeria’s most influential newspapers, noted as follows: “The National Assembly failed to strike the right chord with Nigerians when it rejected the power devolution bill in the on-going exercise to further amend the 1999 constitution. This is a huge setback in the quest for national rediscovery, misguidedly contrived by 48 senators with the House of Representatives in tow. It is a rank failure that will continue to haunt the parliament. Enough of this betrayal and playing the ostrich. Time, indeed, is running out”. Another widely read newspaper, Daily Sun, in an editorial commentary on August 7, 2017 posited as follows: “The National Assembly vote on the devolution of powers bill is shocking to many Nigerians. It revealed an assembly that is out of touch with reality. Although this is not the first time the National Assembly has demonstrated such levity towards crucial national issues, no one expected that in an important debate like this one on the devolution of powers, members would choose to play Nero as Rome burns”. Again, Femi Falana reacting to the matter said: “The National Assembly … is controlled by the APC. Since the APC wants to retain the status quo at all cost, the National Assembly was encouraged to kick against the devolution of powers from the centre to the states. Not only was power devolution rejected, the National Assembly also resolved to concentrate more powers in the centre…” (Daily Sun, August 7, 2017). Femi Gbajabiamila, the then majority leader in the House of Representatives, described the defeat of the devolution of power bill as “a mistake”. He said: “many of us will be asking for the issue of devolution of powers to be revisited… it is either an oversight or a mistake…” To be continued next week.