Unknown persons have reportedly botched a planned anti-corruption protest by a coalition in Abia State. The Abia Coalition for Good Governance and Against Corruption (ACAC) had planned to protest the fraud allegation against former Governor Theodore Orji and his son. The hoodlums were said to have injured a co-convener of the protest, Emperor Ogbonna, and stole his valuables. Ogbonna said thwarting the protest would not end the coalition’s demand for good governance and accountability. He stressed that Abia, due to corruption, had become a backward state. The human rights activist said the protest was held to prompt the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to investigate the fraud allegation against Orji and his son, who is Speaker of the House of Assembly. Ogbonna dismissed rumours that the coalition was sponsored by the opposition, stressing they were only demanding that the Speaker temporarily steps down until investigations were concluded. He said: “We all saw reports about the activities of Theodore Orji and his son, and the allegations of financial impropriety levelled against them. So, this coalition decided to hold a peaceful protest to prompt EFCC to investigate the matter well. “We don’t want the investigation to be dropped. We also want the Speaker of the House of Assembly, Chinedum Orji, to step down temporarily because of the amount of money involved. “While planning for the protest, about 150 boys, armed with guns, machetes, knives, bottles and sticks, attacked us and on sighting me, left others and descended on me. They beat me, tore my clothes, and stole my phones. I escaped by chance. “Two policemen were there with a DSS operative. Before I could even see properly, they had attacked both of them. When the situation got out of hand, the policemen shot in the air and the hoodlums receded. “Some policemen who came from the commissioner’s office then said I was being arrested for illegal protest but I told him I wasn’t doing anything illegal but exercising my fundamental rights as a citizen. “I was arrested and taken to the DPO of Umuahia, from there to the area commander who took me to the police commissioner who questioned why I protested without permission?  I told him I’m yet to begin the process. A similar protest is happening in Abuja, and the IG had given his permission, and that I was only organising things and planning to come to his office later. He then told me to go. “We will hold another protest in Aba and we will work with the police so they’ll have no reason to term it unlawful.” Police Commissioner Ene Okon said the command did not get any letter from the IG approving the protest. He added that the protest was disrupted when a pro-and anti-groups clashed. Oko, however, said his men rescued leader of the protesters although he claimed he was manhandled. 