 Wallet is important for holding essential documents.  It comes in various shapes, sizes and materials, such as leather, polyester, vinyl, canvas, aluminum. In wallet, you keep items, such as international passport, tickets, travelers’   cheques credit and debit cards, drivers licence, and identity cards. When shopping for wallet, the last thing you want is a wallet which wears out after  a short period of  use or one that  is so incredibly  uncomfortable, simply not practical for everyday use. Imagine whipping out your wallet to pay bills or fumbling through your wallet that is completely frayed to pieces. It is important to know all the little nuances before shopping for a wallet.  Here are some of things you need to consider when buying a wallet. You need to consider the structures such as the classic Bifold wallet, Trifold wallet, money clip wallet, Checkbook wallet, coin wallet with card slot. You also need to consider the material they are made of and how long you intend to use it. With its simple design, the classic Bifold wallet allows you access cards and cash with just a flip of the flap. It is among the slimmest of designs.  It allows you to sit comfortably, without feeling like you are sitting on a lump.  If you are the type that carries more cards, the trifold is an excellent choice. It is a classic design that seemed to be one of men favorites. What really sets the trifold apart is the number of compartments that are typically contained. However, overstuffing your trifold will make it bulge. The money clip wallet is one of the best wallets for men who prefer the minimalist lifestyle and want just little when it comes to the amount of items they can carry. If you are going to a special occasion or perhaps you simply just want a wallet that stands out from the crowd, the classic checkbook wallet may be worth your consideration. Originally designed for men who travelled often, the checkbook wallet will easily hold a vast array of not only credit cards, but also your checkbook, passport and currency. As wallet varies in quality, so are their prices. Some are sold at between N1, 000 and N5, 000. You can also get some  brands like Fossil at N15, 000 and above.  Wallets are sold at online and offline retail stores.  While quality could determine the durability of wallet, its usage is also essential.   When you constantly stuck more items in the wallet, the stitching around the edges or the creases in the fold, especially for a trifold wallet will begin to fray and ultimately breaks down. SILICON VALLEY  