 AIR Force jets have hit insurgents around Garkida, the Adamawa State town raided last weekend by Boko Haram insurgents. NAF said in a statement by its Director of Public Relations and Information, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola that it carried out the bombardment on Sunday and Monday after receiving intelligence reports that the insurgents came to Garkida from the forest in Borno State. In a statement, he said:  “NAF, through the Air Task Force (ATF) of Operation Lafiya Dole , has destroyed some Boko Haram Terrorist (BHT) structures and logistics facilities at Garin Maloma and Parisu in the Sambisa Forest general area of Borno State. “The air strikes were executed on 23 and 24 February 2020 as part of the ongoing Operation Rattle Snake  3 based on credible intelligence reports indicating that elements of the BHTs that carried out the attack on Garkida in Adamawa State originated from camps within the Sambisa Forest. “Consequently, the ATF dispatched its attack aircraft to engage both locations, destroying several structures housing the terrorists as well as some of their logistics stores, which were seen engulfed in flames. “The NAF, operating in concert with surface forces, will sustain its air campaign to shape the battle space in the Northeast for the effective conduct of further ground and air operations.” Also, Chief of Army Staff Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai says the Army is making giant strides against Islamic States of West Africa Province (ISWAP) and Boko Haram terrorists in the Northeast. Gen. Buratai stated this at the opening of the 2nd edition of Career Planning and Management Seminar, 2020, organised by the Department of Military Secretary (Army) yesterday in Abuja. The theme of the two-day seminar is “Career Planning and Management in Nigerian Army as a Means of Sustaining Professionalism and Effective Responsiveness in Nigerian Army Operations”. He said that the renewed effort of the army in the theatre of operations was yielding the desired result towards rooting out the terrorists. He said: “I am glad to note that we are making giant stride against the ISWAP and Boko Haram in our bid to unpin the unholy union between them and the remnants of the Boko Haram terrorists. “We are certainly on course and focused. It is therefore imperative that we maintain the momentum while motivating our officers and men through an efficient and balanced career planning process.” Gen. Buratai also charged all formation commanders to ensure that his strategic goal for   2020, which is to sustain professionalism of Nigerian army and responsiveness in the discharge of its constitutional role, was implemented. He added that all activities and operational directives must align with the goal. The COAS also charged commanders to ensure that effort in Operation Lafiya Dole and other army operations across the country were sustained and consolidated. Buratai said that the Army‘s collaboration in research and development with the Defence Industry Corporation of Nigeria (DICON) must be sustained. He said that this is to maintain existing equipment and continually define to produce needed security hardware and platforms. The army chief also reiterated the need for all officers and men to maintain discipline, be law abiding and continue to uphold professional standards in all their operations. Gen. Buratai said the Nigerian Army has continued to pay special attention to the career development of its officers, as they lead in the battle ground against the terrorists and other criminals. Military Secretary (Army), Maj.-Gen. Gabriel Ochigbano, said the department was saddled with the career planning of officers guided by report from unit and formations across the country.