There is no doubt that one of the right steps this government has taken is the appointment of Alhaji Mohammed Nami, a thorough-bred tax professional, as the Executive Chairman, Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS). One of the strictures against good performance of those holding public office in Nigeria is inappropriate appointment. This is worse in political dispensations where appointments are motivated by political considerations. Alhaji Nami’s appointment is a departure from the norm. It is an indication that a divine spirit is at work. For those who don’t know him, I am pleased to announce to you that he is a tax field Commanding Officer with many years of tax and accountancy practice behind him.  Nami was baked in the crucible of Pannell Kerr Forster, a British firm renowned for accountancy and tax practice. His penchant for detail and accuracy is rarefied, and this will significantly enhance his performance. It is heartening that in his first few weeks in office, he has instituted deep reforms that would reposition the Service for better service delivery. In addition, we must thank Mr. President for the ongoing tax reforms. While appreciating the contributions of the Executive Chairman’s predecessors in office, we cannot run away from the fact that the FIRS, as it is today, is louder than its worth. We hear of humongous tax collection that is not benchmarked against potential. Annual increase in tax revenue is hailed and celebrated as if population and needs had remained static. It is not discounted with the rate of inflation, foreign exchange, cost of collection and the number of personnel involved in revenue collection. The world is moving on in a frantic pace and technology has sired electric cars which would, in few years, discount in a significant manner the value of our major source of income which is crude oil. Nigeria needs money to build critical infrastructure for a healthy economy. It is for this reason we need someone who would drive revenue collection with the zeal of a Jehovah’s Witness. Nami must grapple with the many intriguing complexities and ambiguities in tax legislation that make tax administration and compliance very daunting. These can be gleaned from the following judicial pronouncements; “No man in the country is under the smallest obligation, moral or other, so to arrange his legal relations to his business or property as to enable the Inland Revenue to put the largest possible shovel in his stores. The Inland Revenue is not slow, and quite rightly, to take every advantage which is open to it under the Taxing Statutes for the purposes of depleting the taxpayer’s pocket. And the taxpayer is in like manner entitled to be astute to prevent, so far as he honestly can, the depletion of his means by the Inland Revenue,” according to Lord Clyde (1929). “If a man were to make a systematic business of receiving stolen goods, and to do nothing else, and he hereby systematically carried on a business and made a profit  of 2,000 pounds a year, the Income Tax Commissioners would be quite right in assessing him as if it were in fact his vocation,” Partridge Vs Mallandaine, High Court of Justice (Queen’s Bench Division), 1885. “It is, in my opinion, absurd to suppose that honest gains are charged to tax and dishonest gains escape. To hold otherwise would involve a plain breach of the rules of the statute, which require the full amount of the profits to be taxed and merely put a premium on dishonest trading. The burglar and the swindler, who carry on a trade or business for profit are as liable to tax as an honest business man, and, in addition they get their deserts elsewhere,” said Lord Morrison. Lord Clyde had laid bare the distinction between tax avoidance and tax evasion in his highly celebrated judgment. Tax avoidance is not a crime. A tax payer can avoid tax by arranging his financial records in a way as to make him pay as little tax as possible. Tax evasion is a crime. This is illegal avoidance of tax by hiding taxable income or claiming unauthorised deductions. It is apparent that the war between the tax man and the tax payer is the one of wits. Tax on dishonest gains is an indication that there is no morality in tax business. It is the tax evaders Alh. Nami should go after. In this era of voluntary tax compliance through self assessment, he should go after tax defaulters. Thank God his first name is Mohammed, he should move to the mountain if the mountain refuses to move to him. I attended the Pannell Kerr Forster training school in 1988 where I watched more than ten video clips on tax collection in Britain. A man who was apprehended by tax officers was taken aback by the detailed knowledge of the officers of his affairs. They knew he plays golf and had record of his annual subscription at the golf club. They knew he smokes and drinks. They knew the number of his children and his type of abode. Since he was not up to date with his tax returns he was given a Best of Judgment Assessment. In developed countries, it is difficult to be off the radar of the eagle eyes of the tax man. In Nigeria, you can have more than thirty houses in Lagos which you put up for rent and yet pay no personal income tax. Most billionaire traders in Aba, Onitsha and Lagos carrying on business as limited companies don’t pay tax. The few who do, declare next to nothing as taxable income. And against such it appears there is no law. In the December 10, 2001 of Thisday, I queried the published financial statement of a foremost construction company in Nigeria. For the financial year 2000, it declared a turnover of N22.75 billion and a profit before tax ofN768.23 million. This represents 3.37per cent of turnover. This giant construction company is saying it makes less than N4 profit on every N100 of turnover. Yet, this construction company in that year won the Performance Earning and Returns Leadership (PEARL) award of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) for that year. If you are in search of hypocritical awards this is one. The truth is that these foreign shareholders don’t depend on dividends declared in local currency. They make their money in a big way through the over invoicing of imported machinery, motor vehicles, tools and equipment. In this way, funds are transferred outside the country. Another area in which surveillance is weak is in regard to donations. Few years ago, one of the richest Nigerians donated N3 billion at the fundraising of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) for the building of the party’s headquarters in Abuja. Firstly, a political party is not one of the approved bodies for donation. The consequence is that the N3 billion should be added back to his taxable income. Donations must be made out of profit and the maximum amount allowable is limited to 10 per cent of the total profits of the company before deducting the donation. Lastly, donations must not be an expenditure of a capital nature. The implication of this is that with the N3 billion donation, this billionaire cannot declare total profits from all sources below N30 billion in that particular year. I doubt if the tax authorities verified all these in his accounts. Bringing all eligible tax payers under the tax net should be a prime objective of Nami. This can be achieved by legislation, surveillance, enforcement and whistle blowing. I am opting to be a whistle blower and I will do this free of charge.  In Nigeria, it is rare seeing someone sent to jail for tax evasion. People should start going to jail. My prayer is that at the end of Nami’s tenure, Nigerians would have accepted tax compliance as a way of life.