Emma Elekwa, Onitsha  Commissioner of Police, Anambra State, John Abang has restated his commitment towards proactive policing in accordance with internationally acceptable best practices. He gave the assurance Wednesday at the official Commissioning of Statement taking facility at the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) office in Awkuzu, Anambra State. The project initiated and executed by the Rule of Law and Anti-Corruption (RoLAC) with support from British Council and European Union is designed to address pitfalls in the effective and speedy dispensation of criminal justice process through interrogations. Abang said the project which is in tandem with the proactive crime fighting model of the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Abubakar Adamu would enable Police obtain electronic evidence during statement taking in accordance with the Administration of Criminal justice Act 2015. He assured that the Command under his watch would continue to partner with relevant stakeholders to enable it realise its objectives of technology driven policing. Appreciating RoLAC for the provision of the facility, the CP expressed optimism that it would facilitate the prosecution of suspects, just as he appealed to the sponsors to replicate same in other police formations in the state. State Coordinator of RoLAC, Mrs. Josephine Onah said the project was targeted at advancing the timely, effective and transparent dispensation of criminal justice. “We believe the project will advance the course of effective criminal justice system in interviewing and interrogating crime suspects in a manner that discourages torture and trampling on their fundamental human rights,” she said. Also speaking, Chairman, Anambra State Justice Sector Reform Team, Justice Peter Obiorah, said the statement generated from the rooms would further change the narrative of prosecutions. On his part, Officer in charge of SARS Awkuzu, Patrick Agbazue, while pledging optimal use of the facility, said it would profer better approach and veracity to information that would facilitate court processes.