While classic reds and pinks might be an obvious choice, winter whites and blazer dresses give a different twist on V-day style. No matter what kind of date night you have planned for February 14 or beyond, take a look at these stylish outfit ideas straight from the celebs. Plus, shop the ultimate gift ideas here. We all want to look fabulous for any special occasion which definitely includes Valentine Day. With Valentine’s Day right around the corner, it’s time to start searching for the ultimate date outfit. Love it or hate it, February 14 seems to send the entire world into frenzied emotion. We panic about what exactly to get for our loved ones and what to wear to mark the occasion. Though this special day is not always on everybody’s agenda, for those who choose to celebrate Valentine’s Day, here are a few suggestions of what to wear to look good. Lunch date Would you be going out for a nice lunch or just go out to have a good time with friends? Why not try a nicely-cut pencil skirt or pants, which is always a winner. Slip on a nice shirt dress and update the look with platform heels and complement this with a handy handbag or small purse. Guys can combine a nice shirt with a pair of bandless pants, knock-off with blazers. Or a blazer jacket with a shirt or tank top Jeans is indispensable to any man. Stay stylish and standout on Valentine night with a striking cocktail dress with a touch of red or pink and keep everything else simple. Now one thing that is very important to note before buying a dress for Valentine’s Day is whether it’s a daytime event or an evening event. Guys, the perfect hue for an evening date is black. It’s the most versatile colour of all time. Trainers or sneakers are not allowed. This is the period to flaunt your leathers. So, dress up smart and wear something that reflects your style and attitude. But remember these fashion hubs of Valentine’s Day: dresses are not just for those with partners. Singles should also celebrate and go out for Valentine’s too! So whether you plan dining at a fancy, romantic restaurant with your hubby, or you plan to hit town with friends, consider dressing festively for the occasion without seeming too tacky!