Clad in a blue suit, standing, speaking, turning left and right, wagging fingers in the air, the image to a deaf man who cannot hear what he is saying would have been one of a civil politician doing what they do best—using swift oratory to garner supporters. But on Wednesday January 29, the image Godwin Obaseki, the governor of Edo State carved in the eyes and mind of his listeners was that of utter bewilderment as he incited violence to the highest decibel. Shunning any pretence to decorum and diplomacy, the governor began a long tirade on national TV, recorded in real-time by social media users. He said unprintable things, cheered on by an audience of sycophants but ultimately betraying something shocking: his unworthiness for office. In his vituperation, he swore to show Comrade Adams Oshiomhole: “We are warning the suspended national chairman; if he doesn’t stay away of his activities in Edo State, I will show him that I am the Governor of Edo State”. But this is altogether funny because it recalls a particular statement in the highly didactic political drama series, Game of Thrones to wit: “A man who reminds his subjects he is king, is no king.” He certainly isn’t. And most interestingly, even in his slight consciousness of his designation, he seems to be aware that he is already rejected. In the long stretch of shameful tomfoolery, he kept on rehearsing again and again, that he is the governor. “I am the governor of Edo State and I so authorize it”, he said, going as far as granting official permission to thugs, on national TV and in the eyes of the world, to wreak havoc in a state he is the chief security officer! But if Wednesday display is the height of it, there is still a depth of historical precedence to the development. The matter and the reason for this condition of things could be summarized in one word: incompetence. But some situations, just like the one at hand, are not done justice by summary. Coming to power, Obaseki enjoyed popular support, backed by the advanced politicians in the party. For this reason, he rode seamlessly to power, his only job being to deliver public speeches and advertise his manifesto. The tough job of ruthless politicking was done for him, and when victory came, Edo State was handed on a platter to him. His job then became bringing to reality, the contents of his glossy manifesto. That was where he failed. And there began the trouble. And so, when the electorate came calling for answers and to give account of how they have been governed so far, Obaseki in a fit of abdication began the dirty politics of accusing and smearing the image of others for his to shine and look good. That sowed the seed of discord, animosity, and the calumny that came to its zenith last Wednesday. Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, having recognized his mistake and deciding not to back Obaseki any further, the distraught governor who was spoilt by the unanimous support he enjoyed in his first election became embittered and resolved to bludgeon anyone and everyone to support him. To Obaseki, opposition and dissent is a crime that must not be tolerated. This sickening sense of entitlement gave birth to the violence, abuse, arson, and sundry quagmires that has brought and kept dragging Edo State into the bad side of national news. It gave birth to the subverting of 14 Edo House of Assembly legislators, to the demolition of opposition member’s properties, the incessant kidnapping and daylight attack of renowned dissenters, to the jackboot restriction of event centres and venues for the rally of perceived opposition. At some point, a section of the media blamed the crisis on Oshiomhole. When the latter reached out a hand of friendship, suing for peace, Obaseki flatly rejected the idea, his heart already super-charged by entitlement and egotistic ambition. With time the pretence began to peel away, the plot gradually building to its climax and finally, bringing us to Wednesday vituperation. So when Obaseki said: “I have decided and declared that if Comrade Oshiomhole comes here to say he wants to distract the activities of the state or the party, we will deal with him the way we want”, the governor wasn’t saying something new. Rather, he was merely baring his ugly fangs and claws in the public. His statements on Edo Peoples Mandate members merely confirm that proclivity to deploy the instrument of violence against perceived opponents. Of course, the charged speech is already having effect with one of those opposed to him, Charles Idiagbhon, attacked on Friday and only escaped assassination by the whiskers.  Anyone who has a little bit of knowledge of psychology or philosophy will understand. We know that his camp that has been falling apart needs assurance; needs anything to convince them that this man is in control, hence the untoward drama  But while we may not take it too hard on the governor through our ambitious expectations (because we now know he is unworthy), we must store last Wednesday’s outbursts in our minds and recall it often and frequently, because it is the day the man himself made the popular argument that has, for long, been made against him: How can a man of such unenviable temperament muster the needed diplomacy and wisdom to attract investors and development to Edo State? Is it any wonder the state is stagnated under his watch? Display of anger has never been an expression of strength, neither has it ever demonstrated courage. At best, it only reveals deep insecurity from the petulant ’child.’ For Obaseki, his depth of insecurity is revealed both in his nasty gesticulations, stern tone, and of course his repetitive utterance of –”I am the governor of Edo.” It shows fear, even leaving him a caricature whose lousy display proves of the age-old saying that the empty drum makes the most noise. Anyone who has a little bit of knowledge of psychology or philosophy will understand. We know that his camp that has been falling apart needs assurance; needs anything to convince them that this man is in control, hence the untoward drama. Unfortunately, his approach is counterproductive as with that black and red microphone, Obaseki stood there and for the number of minutes he spoke, was actually driving a nail to his ambition. This man cannot stand again politically; he is crippled, and in the aftermath of all these, even the wheelchair of obscure appointment would be a hard one for him. But like all polar bears who are natural habitat of arctic ice pans, soon the hot-blooded man running amok in Edo will be left hung, dry, and cold. 