Whether you love to admit it or not, there is always a huge buzz around the style and marital status of our celebrities. This is not surprising because showbiz is about glitz and glamour, among other things; it is about the style, fads and fashion peculiar to a person. This week, we shall be focusing on the hottest, freshest and the most stylish bachelors on the celebrity scene. Of course, we know that the celeb scene is where any country’s best dressed, finest and, of course, the most horrible males are likely to be found. But here, we are talking about the cream de la crème of this scene. From handsome blokes to super gorgeous gentlemen, these actors, singers, OAPs and models all have a few significant things in common: They are hot, single, searching and ready to mingle. DON JAZZY Michael Collins Ajereh, better known as Don Jazzy, is a Nigerian record producer, singer, songwriter and entrepreneur. He’s spiritedly handsome in that pleasant mummy’s boy kind of way and that perhaps explains why he’s everyone’s darling. The founder of Mavin Records prefers to keep his relationships low-key but he likes to say that he is searching. Two words:  Disarmingly friendly. ALEX EKUBO Multi-talented Nigerian actor Alex was first runner up at the 2010 Mr Nigeria contest. He won the Best Actor in a Supporting Role award at the 2013 Best of Nollywood Awards for his role in the Weekend Getaway. His strength? His gorgeous-to-a-fault and quite fine looks. One word: cute. EYINNA NWIGWE Nigerian actor,model and  producer, Eyinna Nwigwe, is best known for his faultless interpretation of the lead role in blockbuster movie, The Wedding Party. Nwigwe is handsome, dashing super down to earth. Nwigwe began his career as a runway and print model before transitioning to acting. Two words: ruggedly simple. UTI NWACHUKWU Uti Nwachukwu is one of the few men alive who can rock Superman spandex and look damn sexy doing it. Sir Uti is a Nigerian actor, model and OAP. Also, he was the winner of Big Brother Africa season. Two words: Royal freshness. IYANYA That distinctive body is almost as cute as his smiles. Iyanya, is a Nigerian recording artist and performer. He rose to fame after winning the first season of Project Fame West Africa and is best known for his hit single Kukere. Strength? A body that will make most women drool. IKECHUKWU Nigerian singer, rapper, and actor, Ikechukwu Onunaku, popularly known as Killz or Ik, is still on the singles market. One word: fun. JIM IYKE Nollywood actor, entrepreneur and master of both sublime and action-packed lover boy roles, Jim is gorgeous, dashing and super talented. His strength? His piercing eyes and well buffed body. Two-word description: smooth operator. TIMAYA He’s not only nicely handsome and charming; Timaya is also an incredibly talented artist and he loves keeping it real, even on social media. He has never been married, but he has three children from previous relationships. One word: down-to-earth. BRYAN OKWARA What can we say? Bryan Okwara is super gorgeous and he knows it! Beautiful-man Bryan is a Nigerian actor and model who won the title of Mr. Nigeria in 2007 and reached the semi-finals in the Mister World 2007 competition. Three-word description: Too much ‘fineness’. FLAVOUR Not only is he hot now; he’s ruggedly handsome too. Chinedu Okoli, better known by his stage name Flavour, is a Nigerian singer, songwriter, multi-instrumentalist and performer. Flavour is single, but he has two daughters. Two words: fine bobo. PRAIZ R and B singer, songwriter, producer, Praise Ugbede Adejo is super handsome and seems like a sweet guy. He is incredibly talented and creative, finishing as the runner-up at the maiden Project Fame show. One word:  soulful. HARRYSONG Hit maker, Harrison Tare Okiri is as talented as he is good looking. Better known by his stage name Harrysong, he is a Nigerian singer, songwriter and instrumentalist who rose to fame after his tribute song to Nelson Mandela won the “Most Downloaded Callertune Award” at The Headies 2013. Strength? His voice. 