The Lagos state government at the weekend said its ‘Schools’ Invention Platform’ (Lagos SIP) will prepare students for an intellectually mature life. Commissioner for Education, Mrs. Folashade Adefisayo, stated this while addressing secondary school students who participated in the Lagos State Schools’ Invention Platform Season 11 with the theme: ‘Invention and Entrepreneurship  towards future living’, which took place at the Adeyemi Bero Hall, Secretariat, Alausa. The commissioner was represented by the permanent secretary in the ministry, Mrs. Abosede Adelaja. “The Lagos SIP aims to propel you to acquire knowledge, develop your power of reasoning and skills as well as ingrain in you the drive to prepare for an intellectually mature life. We are not relenting in our desire to ensure you acquire the right skills to empower your ability to compete along global lines.” She told the students who participated in the grand finale of the SIP annual competition in drama, songs, choreography, poetry and inventions that it is a tool to strike a balance between educational excellence and innovative business acumen in young adults to develop their innate skills and talents. She said it is a formidable foundation for the state that has resolved to restructure the education sector by improving teaching and learning methods in schools state-wide through its programmes and activities. “We are striking a balance between the scientific, educational excellence and the innovative business acumen as a tool to redirect the young adult explorative thoughts from premarital sex to an option of developing innate skills and talents through a scientific invention of economic value.” She said the project of Lagos SIP is to enable the in-school youths learn more through ‘Edutainment’, adding that “the culture of music, choreography, drama, poetic expression, information, scientific invention and entrepreneurship aims at unlocking the potential of the ‘knowledge triangle’. “The state is forging ahead with new trends in quality education that will be at par with 21st century standard of learning, harnessing industrialist and public spirited individuals on a yearly basis to adopt a project per education district.” Urging the students to eschew vices, decisions and actions that are capable of derailing them from their goals and focus in life, she told them to look inwards and embrace positive actions that could be beneficial to their promising future. At the end of the competition, involving schools from the five education districts in the state, district 1 won the overall best performance and also the best in the drama and invention categories, district 4 won in the poetry category and district 5 won in choreography and songs categories.