Mike Odiegwu, Yenagoa A founding member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bayelsa State, Prince Preye Aganaba, has withdrawn his case against the Governor-elect, Chief David Lyon and the All Progressives Congress(APC) ahead of the February 14 handover. Aganaba, a frontline governorship aspirant who became aggrieved by the outcome of the September 4, 2019 primary that led to the emergence of Lyon as the candidate of the party, said he took the decision for the greater interest of the party and to mark the sixth anniversary of the APC in the state. He said the victory of the APC at the last governorship election and the party’s anniversary brought nostalgic memories of the events that led to the formation of the party in 2014. He said: “10th of February 2020, marks the sixth year anniversary of the birthing of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Bayelsa state. It brought back nostalgic memories of the day I registered in my ward in Odi, Kolokuma Opokuma LGA, Bayelsa State. “Looking back at the hostilities and barricades thrown up by the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in 2014, all in a bid to frustrate our efforts in entrenching APC as a formidable opposition party, geared to take over power in the state, it gives me a warm feeling of joy to know that the party we fought tooth and nail for, will become in a few days, the ruling party and the APC flag, will fly high, in all nooks and crannies of Bayelsa state. “This is why on the 10th of February 2020, I instructed my lawyer to withdraw the case from Court in the greater interest of the party and the state”. He explained that he went to court to seek redress following the injustice meted on him at the party primary that produced Lyon as the party’s candidate. According to him: “I have made up my mind to withdraw the case and to discontinue any legal resolution to the September 4th APC governorship primaries in Bayelsa state, I have further instructed our lead counsel not to relist the case as ordered by Justice Inyang Ekwo. “The APC Bayelsa state chapter, despite all odds, has shown the tenacity, resilience and vision to triumph, same tenets, few of us as founding father’s shared, when laying the foundation of this great party in Bayelsa state. “The victory of the All Progressive Congress (APC) is a victory for all loyal and committed party members. At this juncture, it will be appropriate to congratulate the Governor-Elect and wish him a successful term in office”.