With 33 people dead in four attacks by unknown gunmen, Plateau State appears to be returning to the ugly era of grief, reports YUSUFU AMINU IDEGU. With four attacks by gunmen in two Local Government Areas of Plateau State within three weeks resulting in more than 30 deaths, the question on everyone’s lips is whether Plateau State is back to the era of mass burial. Of course, with 12 people killed in the first attack in Kulben village, Mangu Local Government Area; 15 in Kwatas, Bokkos Local Government Area; four killed in Mangu and three in Bokkos, there are fears that the state may be back to the dark days. The sustained attacks have resulted in four mass graves; a situation that understandably leaves Governor Simon Bako Lalong with more worries than anyone else. Lamenting the situation, Lalong said: “I can’t take this anymore. How can 15 people be killed and the killers are not arrested? Are the killers spirits? They must be chased after and brought to face justice.” The victims of the renewed attacks might have celebrated their high hopes as 2020 beckoned, but the messengers of death stormed their villages, met the hapless residents, took advantage of their weaknesses and unleashed terror on them. It was like a scene from a horror movie acted to the letter. Some of the victims were just relaxing at a local liquor joint when the attackers took them unaware. Some were on their beds resting after the toil of the day. The motive of the attackers has left many confused. It was not the usual reprisal attacks that follow disputes caused by cattle rustling. In fact, the days of cattle rustling are far forgotten in the state. Illiya Sunday, an indigene of Kuboi, a village in Bokkos Local Government Area where one of the attacks occurred, said: “We were taken by surprise. There was no basis for this kind of attack. I’m suspecting there is a plot somewhere by to destabilise the state completely for reasons best known to them.” As observed by Illiya, communities in Plateau State have been living in peace in recent times following the sustained peace programmes of the Simon Lalong administration, which are being implemented through the Plateau State peace building agency, initiated by the present administration. The Fulani residents in the state have also been living in harmony with members of their host communities. Many, however, believe that the attacks are being organised from outside the state. The Senator representing Plateau North, Senator Istifanus Gyang, said: “Citizens of Plateau State who are predominantly Christians are still targeted for persecution. Our boys who are schooling in the North East are being trailed, abducted and killed, and those at home are being visited with organised attacks.” The attacks started with the killing of 13 people on Sunday night in Kwatas village. The attack led to violent protests on Monday morning, at about the same time that one of the seven injured persons died in hospital. Some neighbouring settlements belonging to herdsmen were razed during the protests, causing an escalation of the initial violence. An aged man trapped in his burning house in nearby Ruboi village burnt to ashes. His son was gunned down, while chasing after the attackers in obvious anger. Several houses, including that of former Plateau State House of Assembly Speaker, Titus Alams, were razed in the village. Many  houses were also burnt down in nearby Mariah Village. Worship centers and residents of clergy men were not spared. The agonies from the series of attacks and killings knew no bounds. Families, spouses and children of the victims were left in psychological trauma. On the other hand, those who escaped death but lost their loved ones are languishing in camps. The Nation found that more than 5,000 people displaced as a result of the attacks are in need of relief materials to survive. Children and the aged exposed to the prevailing cold weather in the state are highly vulnerable to pneumonia and other ailments associated with cold. Some of them are taking refuge in markets, schools and churches. One of them, Mary Job, who became a widow after the attack and also had their home razed, said: “The attackers killed my husband and burnt our house and left me and my children to die in the cold. The agony I’m passing through is unbearable. They better had killed me.” At Luna Hospital, a privately owned clinic in Bokkos where sympathisers assembled to receive the bodies of their loved ones, it was a gloomy situation. Men and women were wailing and gnashing their teeth in agony. It was impossible to hold back tears. A 27-year-old young man, Joshua Daman, said sobbing: “I lost two very close friends and two younger brothers. I’m planning to leave this village after the burial. I can’t live without the people I lost. I will die of agony if I remain in this village. The pains are unbearable.”