Retired Methodist Archbishop of Ilesa, Most Rev. Ayo Ladigbolu, has expressed his desire to see the church enthrone a female bishop in his life. He spoke on Monday in Sagamu, Ogun State at the dedication of the Refectory of Methodist Theological Institute (MTI), named in his honour. The dedication was jointly done by the Prelate of Methodist Church Nigeria, His Eminence (Dr.) Samuel Kalu Uche and President of World Methodist Council, Rev. (Dr.) J.C. Park. Ladigbolu, who said he was at the forefront of the agitations that led to the ordination of women as priests several years ago, expressed his belief that women deserved to occupy the highest positions in the church. “I believe God will not take me away until I see the enthronement of a female bishop in Methodist Church Nigeria. “I remember the time our deaconess in training would come to me and ask: ‘Daddy, is this the end of our journey?’ And I would say to them: ‘Courage sisters. Leave the rest in the hands of God’. So no one can imagine my joy when Nkechi Nwosu was ordained as the first female priest in Methodist Church Nigeria. “I hope that Methodist Church Nigeria will prove to others that it is gender friendly, gender sensitive and believes in the equality of all believers. “Women are the backbone of the church and society. They deserve to occupy the highest positions. I hope this church will find the courage and faith to enthrone a female bishop,” Ladigbolu said. He thanked the Prelate and the leadership of the church for finding him worthy of another honour after having named the multi-million naira head office of the Methodist Archdiocese of Ibadan in his honour about 11 years ago. Some of the dignitaries at the event were archbishops and bishops, including the retired archbishop of Ibadan, Most Rev. Michael Kehinde Stephen; Chairman, Governing Council of MTI and Bishop of Remo diocese, Rt. Rev. J.M. Ibikunle and Chairman, Board for Theology Education, Rt. Rev. (Prof.) Sunday Obeka. Others are industrialist, Chief Bode Akindele; Executive Vice President of Animal Care Consult, Dame Olufunmilayo Agbato; Ambassador Tokunbo Awolowo-Dosunmu; Princess Bisi Sangodoyin among others.