 LAPO Microfinance Bank (MfB) has said  vocational training is key to building successful entrepreneurs. The bank believes that beyond work-specific skills, emphasis should be placed on developing high-level cognitive and non-cognitive/transferable skills. Such skills include problem solving, critical thinking, creativity, teamwork, communication skills and conflict resolution, which can be used across a range of occupational fields. The bank said learners should be provided with opportunities to update their skills continuously through lifelong learning. Evidence abound that small businesses help to grow economies all over the world most especially during times of recession and periods of low growth. LAPO MfB had in 2016 collaborated with the National Directorate of Employment (NDE), National Business and TechnicalExaminations Board (NABTEB) and Ministry of Women Affairs (MWA) across the nation. This was done to ensure that the same standard training centers are made available to its client’s children across the country in their respective communities. This will enable them acquire national standard training and become future employers. A core part of this training sect is the promotion of female gender inclusion and empowerment to the girl/female child to engage in the promotion of small scale businesses. LAPO endeavours to pay for the cost of training and consumable on behalf of all clients children at no recourse to the client. In January 2016, a successful pilot scheme was undertaken in Lagos and Benin, which was extended to other states in Nigeria. In 2017 and 2018, those states include Ondo, Kwara, Osun, Kaduna and Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The selection of nominees is carried out during the bank’s branch council meetings organised for branch customers and conducted in the same manner as the scholarship selection and balloting process. The programme runs with the scholarship programme for the process of nominating awardees. It explained that in line with the Sustainable development goals number 4 “Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong  vlearning opportunities for all.” 