Former Edo State Attorney General and Justice Commissioner, Dr. Osagie Obayuwana, has said the Bill proposing the establishment of an agency for repentant Boko Haram Terrorists (BHTs) is premature. The Senate, in a Bill sponsored by Ibrahim Gaidam (Yobe East), last week, mulled the establishment of an agency for the de-radicalisation, rehabilitation and integration (DRR) of repentant insurgents. Public condemnation greeted the proposal with many Nigerians calling for the Bill to be thrown out. Although Obayuwana said the initiative has the potential to break away from how the issue of Boko Haram has been handled, he insisted it was premature. “In my view, the handling of the matter has been one-sided, which has been limited to bullets, guns and bombs. It would seem that the theoretical and intellectual aspect of the war has not been addressed so far. In other words, there has been physical combat without necessary theoretical engagement. “Those old enough would remember the role played by mass mobilisation on the importance of a united Nigeria during the Civil War. One of the slogans at that time was ‘To keep Nigeria one is a task that must be done’. Radio jingles in particular were deployed to mobilise the generality of the people who were not necessarily armed soldiers. “The main theory of Boko Haram is derivable from their name, which can be summarised as ‘Western education is illegal’. While it is true that there are aspects of Western Euro-American culture that are offensive, there are issues that arise as to what the solutions are to the identified decadence. “For instance, the debasement of womanhood, insensitivity to poverty as well as inequality in the human family. “Under the prevalent Western culture, science is used as a tool of profit to make the rich get richer. While it is legitimate for Boko Haram to condemn this as evil, the issue is what Boko Haram proposes as an alternative. “It would appear that the ideologues of Boko Haram would want to go back to the seventh century, whereas what should be done is to go forward with democratisation of the benefits of scientific inventions to solve the basic challenges of poverty, homelessness, ill health, hunger and illiteracy confronting the vast majority of human kind.” 