All is now set for the preliminary round of the newly instituted Maltina School Games as action will commence today across the four states scheduled for the pilot phase of the new school sports initiative. Over 500 schools will take part in the track and field events that will produce finalists across the states ahead of the national finals in Lagos next month. The event is set to impact over 20 million school children, this innovation into the school calendar by Maltina brand is designed to promote and foster national unity and raising active kids through sports. Lagos, Kano, Anambra and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Abuja will be the centre of attraction from Monday to Friday, February 21, as youngsters aspiring to be Olympians and represent Nigeria at the highest stage of athletics will set their dreams into motion. According to the breakdown, Lagos with 182 has the highest number of participating schools coming from its six educational districts. There are 120 schools from Kano while Anambra has 124 and Abuja with 116 all registered for the Maltina School Games. The Maltina School Games is also a platform designed to promote the development of children, from improving their social and leadership skills, to bettering their wellbeing through sports. With lots of children set to meet others outside the four walls of their respective schools, the Maltina School Games beyond breeding happy moments is also fostering national unity while raising active kids. Outstanding athletes from the Maltina School Games will get a chance to represent Nigeria at international competitions across the world and that could mark a big turnaround in becoming world-acclaimed stars in their respective fields. It has also been announced that the Overall Best School will win N1m worth of support for its forthcoming inter-house sport. Also, the Overall Best Athlete (OBA) will win a scholarship to any Federal University of choice. After the Preliminary round, the State finals will start February 24 to 28.