Jide Osuntokun  Many Nigerians are still in shock over the inclusion of their country in President Donald Trump’s ban on certain countries from coming to the United States of America. The new list includes immigrants from Myanmar (Burma), Eritrea, Kyrgyzstan, Libya and Nigeria. On the other hand Sudan, Tanzania and Belarus citizens will no longer be permitted to apply for the diversity visas generally known as the green card lottery. Banning of some countries ‘citizens from coming to America is the signature policy of President Trump. He considers these countries as “shit holes” and their citizens as being undeserving of living in civilized countries including the United States. We are told Nigerians may still be allowed to visit the country as tourists for short time stay and perhaps young Nigerian students may also be allowed to come to the United States to study after which time they must return to their country. As far as I am concerned, this seems an afterthought and a palliative to soften the blow and humiliation of the wound inflicted on the biggest economy in Africa. At a time in the past, no American government dared do this to us when we were supplying almost 10% of American crude petroleum imports. Things have changed and America is not only self-sufficient in hydrocarbons but it is even exporting gas and oil thanks to additional oil production through fracking. But trade alone is not the only vital link Nigeria has with the USA. Nigeria is the third largest troops’ contributor to UN peacekeeping and peace enforcement operations in the world. As a global hegemonic power, the USA needs Nigeria in its effort to maintain global peace. Nigeria is useful in pulling out USA’s chestnut from fire where America may not want to be directly physically engaged in such places like Liberia, Lebanon/ Israel and Kuwait/ Iraq borders. Nigeria is also important in the security of West Africa and the middle Atlantic generally which are of strategic importance to United States. In any case, a major power like the United States cannot afford to be an island sufficient unto itself. Nigeria remains the largest African market for western industrial goods and all things being equal, Nigeria will remain a major global market in the future when the USA will be locked in horns with China in global economic struggle for supremacy. As an elephant never forgets, we and our children will remember this American humiliation. What did we do wrong to qualify for this disgrace? It is possible that our government shirked its responsibility in not providing immigration information as allegedly claimed by some sources? There is information to suggest that for over two years, the USA government demanded some immigration details from us which we were unwilling or unable to provide. Perhaps there were issues of sovereignty and security on our part which American Homeland Security Department did not appreciate. Whatever the case might have been, somebody was derelict in the assignment and duties of his/ her office. This is not far-fetched because the Nigerian bureaucracy usually responds very slowly if at all. It is not every country that will buy the way we do things in our country. There is also the issue of insecurity and terrorism in our country. Reports about these must be in the diplomatic dispatches sent home by the American embassy in Nigeria to the State Department in Washington D.C. The recent surprising sudden opening of our borders to all Africans who fly into our country where visa will be issued on demand may also have jolted American government into action over the unpredictability of our immigration processes. Some of our nationals who are our honorary envoys in the USA have not served our country well. A significant number has been involved in fraud, identity crimes and credit card crimes generally. This lot has ruined the excellent representation of distinguished and scholarly Nigerians making contribution to American medicine and scientific and liberal academy. Eighty percent of Nigerians resident in the USA have second degrees or masters and doctorate degrees. I remember former President Bill Clinton saying Nigerian immigrants in the USA are the most educated people as a group in the USA. Certainly all these should count for something. Nigerian-Americans should do what all immigrants do, let their votes count in November. The leadership of the US Congress seems aware of their demographic strength and has accused President Trump of racism. Nigerian-Americans should get engaged in American electoral politics and make their presence felt. What is driving President Trump’s policy is his desire not only to make America great again but to make it white. There is statistical evidence that suggests that by the year 2050, white peoples will become a minority in the United States. This is a frightening scenario to most white Americans. Americans like to say they are a nation of immigrants. When they say this they mean white immigrants not black and brown. But with the influx of immigrants from Latin American countries as well as from Asia, the Middle East and Africa, the colour of Americans is beginning to change. This is why President Trump and other racists like him will continue to win in presidential elections not out of merit but out of fear. Nigeria just happens to have fallen on evil times at home and abroad.  I hope our government people will realize that stopping Nigerians from going to America has some economic dimension. The $28 billion sent home by the Nigerian diaspora in the west will ultimately be affected. It is hoped that Boris Johnson, the Trump mimic in 10 Downing Street will not follow suit by banning our people from visiting Great Britain. Quite a few Nigerians have children and family members in the USA, and one can only imagine the psychological damage the effect of visa ban will have on those of us who will be victims. One may say it hasn’t reached that point yet, but if one can read between the lines, the end game of this policy is to ban us and some “shit hole “and problematic countries from normal ties with the USA. The current situation calls for soul searching by our leaders. Setting up a committee to enquire into our predicament is like bolting the door when the horse has escaped. What our government should do as a matter of urgency is mobilizing all Nigerians against insecurity in our country and for development. The insecurity situation is just simply unacceptable. Nowhere is safe or secure; not Katsina the president’s home state nor are other states including the entire north east zone safe. When a Christian leader in Adamawa can be beheaded by a terrorist without anyone being arrested, it shows a sign of collapse of not only government but civilization. Young girls are still being abducted to be impregnated by terrorists in the northern part of our country with impunity. These calamities are too numerous to count. We need a declaration of state of emergency in the whole country to put us back to the secure environment which we were used to. Governance is more than musical chairs of appointments of religiously and ethnically preferred people to those in power. We cannot continue like this. There is just too much suffering in the land. For example the Lagos-Ibadan road whose reconstruction began under General Obasanjo in 2007 is just reaching 45% completion. If it takes this length of time to reconstruct 100 kilometres road, how long will it take to rehabilitate most of the collapsed roads in the country? I give credit to the Buhari government, before him virtually nothing was done on our roads by presidents Obasanjo, Yar’Adua and Jonathan. But having said this, must we wait forever for these roads to be made fit for purpose? Our development deficit de-markets us as a serious country. Malaysians and Singaporeans on account of their development do not need visas to enter any western country including the USA. What I am saying is that the safety valve of legal immigration by our youth is being closed and I shudder to think of what the consequences will be on our security and our national development.