 WHEN the leadership of the Eighth National Assembly was to be constituted, the attitude of President Muhammadu Buhari was, at best, of nonchalance. He felt he could work with anybody; after all, he belonged to nobody but everybody! The last Assembly led by Bukola Saraki and Yakubu Dogara showed him pepper! The battle culminated in Saraki and Dogara defecting from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Dogara was able to return to the House on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) but as a floor member. Saraki not only lost his bid to return to the Senate, but he also lost his grip on Kwara politics. The otoge revolution ended it all for him. The side effect is the loss of his family’s Ile Arugbo. Having learnt from the frosty relationship with the last National Assembly, Buhari took more than a cursory interest in who became Senate President and Speaker in the current dispensation. There were oppositions, including an attempt by Senator Ike Ekweremadu to return as Deputy Senate President. Buhari’s choices eventually had their way with Dr. Ahmad Lawan becoming Senate President and Femi Gbajabiamila Speaker. Being the president’s men, we wrote them off, expecting them to rubber-stamp all the president’s wishes. And they have acceded to a number of his desires with immediate alacrity. But in the last two weeks, Lawan and Gbajabiamila have taken a stand on security in the North and elsewhere that gladdened my heart. Lawan started it all. Lawan said the security in the country had deteriorated and the attendant loss of lives was unacceptable. He said we must secure the lives and property of the citizens as enshrined in our Constitution. The Senate President added that our economy was also affected by the inclement security situation. “We need to speedily seek for solutions to fix the security problem bedevilling our dear country. There is an urgent need for paradigm shift and reform of the architecture and structure of our security systems,” he said. Gbajabiamila last weekend called a meeting of the Service Chiefs. The House had intended to use the meeting to find out what the challenges were and how it could help. But instead of these Big Men taking advantage of the parley to lay bare their challenges, they sent their boys to represent them. There was no prior call or correspondence to justify their absence. The Speaker was obviously livid but tried to control his anger. His position was however clear: Only in Nigeria could Service Chiefs ignore the parliament. He was courageous enough to call off the meeting to the admiration of his men. What is the essence of meeting with armed forces accountants when combatants’ matters were to be tabled? If Lawan and Gbajabiamila had kept quiet, posterity would have judged them harshly. What the Service Chiefs did to the leadership of the House of Representatives reminds me that new hands should be tried. They have done their best and their best is not good enough. The results have not justified the billions of dollars we have been spending on security. Except we want to deceive ourselves, our country is getting increasingly insecure. Interstate roads have become dangerous to drive. Bandits, kidnappers and terrorists have taken over the interstate roads. Buhari admitted being stunned by the turn of events. He should consider turning away the Service Chiefs for things to turn around. Obviously, the current approach to security has failed and the time to try new ones is now. I believe there is a link between the sad state of things and an account given by National Security Adviser (NSA), Maj.-Gen. Babagana Monguno, who said an estimated seven million illegal weapons are in the hands of non-state actors and criminals. This represents 70 per cent of the eight to 10 million illegal arms in West Africa. These illegal arms are being used for violent conflicts, armed banditry, kidnapping, cattle rustling, militancy and the insurgency/terrorism experienced in Nigeria. With our severely undermanned borders, we are in harm’s way. Our inadequately policed land and maritime borders have supported illegal border crossings and irregular migrations, with its attendant trans-national crimes. And with the regular security agents being unable to stem the tide, it is to your tent oh Israel! The activities of bandits forced the Southwest governors to inaugurate a community policing network code-named Amotekun, only for the police leadership, which has failed to protect the people, to double-speak on the initiative. The North may be forced to have its own version of the security network. The Abuja-Kaduna train is receiving more patronage because many are running away from bandits. All thanks to the Abuja-Kaduna highway which is a good road to travel if one intends to meet death in the nick of time. The other day, Boko Haram insurgents killed Rev. Lawan Andimi, a cleric from Adamawa State. Borno, Yobe and other states in the Northeast are still in the grip of the insurgents. I pray we do not get to the 2013/2014 and early 2015 era when they were almost forming a government and had hoisted their flag in many a territory. At that time, there was hardly any Friday without a mosque or two being bombed in the North. It was during that era that the Chibok girls were also abducted. Rev Andimi’s death ruffled feathers. Last Sunday, the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) took the lead in a protest ordered by the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) over the insecurity in the land. Pastor Enoch Adeboye led RCCG members in a walk to seek the sanctity of lives. CAN President Samson Ayokunle said the prayer walk was aimed at using prayers to curb the activities of terrorists and criminals. I disagree here. This is one of those situations that go beyond prayers. The government must protect the citizenry. Senator Istifanus Gyang last week recalled how 27 were killed in a renewed blood bath carried out by insurgents in Kwattas, Ruboi and Marish, Plateau State. Six persons, he added, were abducted. One of those murdered was an undergraduate of the University of Maiduguri. Another Senator spoke of renewed banditry attacks on villages in Niger East. This went on for three weeks. House Spokesman Benjamin Kalu said the insecurity in the land was alarming and could no longer be painted in beautiful colours. The National Security Strategy (NSS) was reviewed last year, but its implementation is yet to take off. The review of the strategy document was caused by the spiralling crime wave across the country. Terrorism, kidnapping, banditry, transnational crimes, crude oil theft, illegal bunkering and small arms proliferation are on the rise. My final take: We thank the president for the initial successes against the insurgents, but these successes have practically been rubbished by the current exploits of Boko Haram, bandits and kidnappers. Like it is in journalism, you are as good as your last byline so we will judge the president by how he handles the current descent and not by his earlier victories against criminality.