 NIGERIAN music superstars Teni and DJ Cuppy have been nominated for the Favourite African Star and Social Media Star respectively at the Nickelodeon’s Kids’ Choice Awards 2020. The event which will be hosted by American Rapper, Chance The Rapper, will take place in Inglewood, California and will stream across YouTube, Instagram, Facebook and Twitter handles and channels will air on Nickelodeon (DStv channel 305) and Nick Toons (DStv channel 308) on Sunday, March 22, 2020. Also nominated are international superstars Will Smith, Beyonce, Kelvin Hart, Dwayne Johnson, Lil Nas X, Ed Sheeran, Angelina Jolie and others. Leading the pack with the most nominations are Avengers: Endgame, with 11 nominations; Taylor Swift, with five nominations; and Frozen 2, Henry Danger and Lil Nas X, with four nominations each. First-time nominees include Teni, DJ Cuppy, John Cena, DaBaby, Tiffany Haddish, Tom Holland, Brie Larson, Lizzo and Megan Thee Stallion. With his nomination in the Favourite Movie Star category, Will Smith becomes the most nominated celebrity in Kids’ Choice Awards history, with the nomination this year bringing him to a total of 29 nominations. Monde Twala, ViacomCBS Networks Africa Senior Vice President and General Manager commented: “Nickelodeon is a booming success around the continent and kids all over the globe are super excited about this year’s KCA’s. Twala continued, “We would like to congratulate all of this year’s nominees who are representing Africa at this global event. Viewers can expect lots of fun, slime, and laughter from 2020 Kids’ Choice Awards.” Last year, Nigerian music star Davido was nominated in the Favourite Global Music Star category, while Adesua Etomi-Wellington and IK Osakioduwa were nominated in the Favourite African Star category. Nickelodeon’s Kids’ Choice Awards 2020 will be simulcast live across Nickelodeon, TeenNick, Nicktoons and the Nick Jr. channel. Nickelodeon, now in its 40th year, is the number-one entertainment brand for kids globally. Fans can cast their votes on the official Kids’ Choice Awards website, https://kca.nickelodeonafrica.com/. 