United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc has launched ‘Click Credit’, a time loan designed to address the urgent needs of customers whose salary accounts are domiciled with the bank. As a bank backed by a strong retail franchise with over 1,000 business offices serving 19 million customers, UBA has introduced this product in line with the bank’s mission of creating value for its customers while assisting them to meet up with their urgent needs. The loan product, already being enjoyed by millions of customers in  Nigeria will be extended to the bank’s other franchises in Africa. Click Credit, which has been carefully crafted to improve the lives of the UBA customers, is a superfast loan product, which will allow qualified customers to apply for up to N5 million loan and pay back over 12 months at an interest rate of 1.58 per cent monthly, with no hidden fees. Specifically, workers who earn N25,000 monthly who fall between of 18 and 59 can benefit from this facility; no need for collaterals, no paper-work or other difficult issues when it comes to this facility; as customers can  apply via LEO, UBA Mobile Banking and UBA internet banking. UBA’s Group Head of Retail Banking, Mr. Jude Anele, who revealed that qualified customers have begun to enjoy the service, explained that the loan provides immediate access to funds once eligibility is confirmed in less than a meeting He said: “As Africa’s most innovative and technology-driven financial institution with an array of novel products and services tailored to the needs of its millions of customers, we have launched Click Credit, which is straight forward and more affordable than many other loan products in the market.  Its unique feature is that it meets a critical credit need for our customers.” Anele while emphasising the critical role that credit plays in any developing and developed society, said that it is part of the customers’ financial power where they can be assisted to get the things they need, when they need them without hassles. Explaining that this product is being rolled out first in Nigeria and subsequently  in UBA’s countries of operations, he said UBA is committed to ensuring that Click Credit helps the bank’s customers to cover critical needs and set them up for success, having moved past that moment of need.