 Most girls stay away from school and social activities during their monthly flow due to reasons beyond their control. A 2018 UNICEF report notes that “lack of access to functional and segregated toilets, limited information on menstrual hygiene management and limited availability of sanitary materials to manage menstruation make it more difficult for girls to manage their periods. “Sanitary pads are expensive and often inaccessible. Some girls resort to managing their periods with pieces of rags or paper which are often unhygienic and uncomfortable. Others ask for permission to leave school premises and many stay at home during their periods.” In 2017, Austina Okpo started the Gift-a-Pad Campaign in Nigeria to help young and poor girls. “I used the crowd-sourcing knowledge I had acquired from The Advanced Digital Changemaking Course I attended on WorldPulse and was able to generate funds enough to place a month supply of sanitary pads in the hands of 192 girls at a public high school in my community. But this is just a drop in the ocean, considering the number of girls who are yet to be reached,” she said. Okpo uses her Gift-A-Pad Campaign to say every girl deserves Protective Appropriate Dressing (P.A.D) every month. She reiterates that while sex is a choice, menstruation is not, and if condoms are free, pads should be free too! She also wants the Nigerian government, and other third world countries, to pass laws that pads should be free for all girls of secondary school age. Amaka Onyema, a lawyer, is also in the business of demystifying menstruation and ensuring that girls get affordable pads when the time comes. Through her ‘Embracing the Girl-Child’ non-profit, Onyema is paying forward the kindness she received as a secondary school girl by distributing pads to secondary school girls and educating them on proper menstrual hygiene. Onyema said: “Menstruation is a natural process. However, in most parts of the world, it remains a taboo and is rarely talked about. Almost always, there are social, cultural and religious norms or unwritten rules and practices about managing menstruation and interacting with menstruating women. “Sanitary towels should be put at very low cost, so low as to allow both the rich and the poor afford it. Girls in school should be able to focus on learning and not be distracted by the inability to afford period protection.”  Period poverty Period poverty is described as the inability of women and girls’ to access affordable, safe and hygienic sanitary products. They are unable to manage their periods with dignity, sometimes due to community stigma and sanction. It also affects women and girls who have limited access to these products, leading to prolonged use of the same tampons or pads, which can cause infection. Due to this poverty period, girls miss one or more days of school. In Sub-Saharan Africa, for example, girls will miss as much as 20 per cent of their school year while some may drop out altogether. The loss of education means girls are more likely to be forced into child marriage. Their health is also at risk because they are forced to use dirty rags which can cause infection. Ending period poverty Campaigners and activists have argued that having a period is not a choice and, therefore, menstrual products should not be considered luxury items with high taxes imposed on them. ActionAid trains women and girls to make  safe, reusable sanitary pads so they always have access to clean and affordable sanitary products. It also provides information about periods, sex and pregnancy in its girls’ clubs so girls are better informed about their bodies. Germany last year stopped taxing menstrual products as luxuries, marking them instead as necessities. In January, the Value Added Tax (VAT) on these products was reduced from 17 per cent to nine per cent. In 2019, only 10 of 50 states in the United States considered menstrual products as necessities and exempted them from sales tax. In October, the number went up to 17. The European Union allows for a reduction of the VAT on menstrual products to a minimum of five per cent. Some other countries have completely removed any sales taxes on menstrual products, such as Kenya, which did it as far back as 2004, as well as Australia, Canada and India. But in Hungary, VAT on menstrual products is as high as 27 per cent.  Reusable pads to the rescue Depending on the flow and number of days, every lady uses at least a pack or two of pads during her time of the month. While some pads are packed in sevens, some are eight, others 10. Also depending on the brand, pads cost between N300 and N1,000 on the average. The implication of this is that on the average, ladies spend about N1,500 or more monthly on pads. To help girls feel more comfortable and manage their periods better, and to cushion the effect of expensive disposable pads, many non-profits are seeking out cheap and hygienic alternatives which are readily available to the poor. In 2018, UNICEF, with funding from Canada, trained 40 girls from four different high schools in Osun State. The week-long training included sessions on how to use sewing machines and locally sourced fabric to make hygienic sanitary materials. The girls were also trained on using and maintaining the re-usable pads. Eighty female students in Anambra and Katsina States were also trained in the production of re-usable sanitary pads. The pads are made of cotton, they are washable and reusable. Girls can use each pad for over 12 months. A set of about five pads cost about N450, a significantly cheaper price to the disposable ones. Materials for the pads are locally-sourced and girls find it easier to manage their periods during school hours and at home too. “Meeting the hygiene needs of all adolescent girls is a fundamental issue of human rights, dignity, and public health. This training is just the beginning. Together with partners, UNICEF Nigeria aims to reach over 1,000 girls with these types of interventions,” said Job Ominyi, WASH Specialist at UNICEF Nigeria.2018. ActionAid trains women and girls to make safe, reusable sanitary pads so they always have access to clean and affordable sanitary products. It also provides information about periods, sex and pregnancy so girls are better informed about their bodies. Nancy Muller, a Senior Program Officer at PATH, said one of the biggest challenges in maintaining menstrual hygiene is the cost of disposable pads and improper sanitation or waste disposal system. “At PATH, we’re exploring potential solutions that are appropriate and affordable. For example, we’ve been looking at ways to make a hybrid reusable pad less expensive, easier to wash, and quicker to dry. Maybe we could even package those with a booklet so girls could learn what’s happening when they start to menstruate. “And another option that I’m excited about is the menstrual cup. These cups catch blood and can last for a decade. And they can be used for 10 to 12 hours at a stretch – a full school day. That could mean so much added potential for keeping girls in school,” she said. PATH is a global team of innovators working to accelerate health equity so all people and communities can thrive. The Pad Project is working with local partners and non-profits to install machines that are easy to operate use locally-sourced natural resources to function, and require minimal electricity. Each machine employs six women and one supervisor, enabling them to produce pads for their communities for approximately $.05 each. Workers can decide how and where to sell their pads to create more economic opportunities. It also created educational toolkits for middle school, high school, college and beyond which provide a structure to explore menstrual health and issues women and girls face all over the world with respect to menstrual hygiene.  Some countries give pads free Scotland, in 2019, committed another 4 million pounds to tackle period poverty. Free sanitary products are now available in more public places such as libraries and leisure centres after they were offered in schools, colleges and universities in August 2018. The move stems from a pilot project announced by the Scottish government in July 2017 that gave women and girls in low income households in Aberdeen free tampons and towels. In Africa, Kenya and South Africa championed the cause. Botswana joined the league in 2017 when it passed a legislation to provide sanitary products to schoolgirls in both state and private schools. “Government provision of sanitary pads to all schools would improve access to education in a country where many could not afford sanitary products like pads,” said Member of Parliament Polson Majaga who tabled the motion. Zambia also unveiled a program to provide free sanitary pads for girls in rural and peri-urban areas. In its 2017 budget, the programme provided for 14,000 girls from vulnerable households in different districts. “In our country, like in many parts of Africa, reproductive health matters are treated as a taboo and with silence. This limits girls’ access to education as some fail to go to school due to lack of proper sanitary towels. In order to increase and retain attendance of girls in schools, the government will begin distributing free sanitary towels to girls in rural and peri-urban areas,” said then Finance Minister Felix Mutati. Periods shouldn’t come with sacrifices. The ability to manage menstruation is not a luxury – it’s essential to enjoying the rights to health, water and sanitation, education, work, and non-discrimination.