 The Southwest chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has urged governors of the six states in the geopolitical zone to expedite action on the Western Nigeria Security Network codenamed Operation Amotekun, by recruiting and deploying personnel in the nooks and crannies of the region. The party lamented the inability of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration to curtail the growing insecurity, describing it as weak and effeminate in preventing insecurity and bringing to justice rampaging killer-herdsmen attacking people across the country. The party spoke in a statement signed by its Zonal Publicity Secretary, Mr. Ayo Fadaka. It hailed Governors Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo); Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti); Gboyega Oyetola (Osun); Seyi Makinde (Oyo); Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos) and Dapo Abiodun (Ogun) for inaugurating Amotekun. The party enjoined the governors to take swift actions on the security and safety of the region, noting that the encouragement became imperative due to the fact that “the nation today totters on the fringes of a combustion that poses dire consequences to Nigeria and its people.” According to the statement, the Presidency has remained weak and effeminate in preventing danger in the land, a development which it said was even attested to by the Senate last week. The statement read: “It is time that the Amotekun initiative was pushed to its next level of operation through recruitment and deployment of personnel through the nooks and crannies of the Southwest. “We state this after taking due cognisance of a statement by the Miyetti Allah, the herders’ trade union taking responsibilities for the recent genocide in Plateau State, and further claiming that the entire nation is their possession. That statement is absolutely irresponsible and capable of inciting untoward responses from other sections of the country. “We continue to remain perturbed that in spite of so many acceptances of responsibilities for genocidal actions by Miyetti Allah, President Buhari’s government continues to fail in bringing these criminals to justice.” “We, however, wish to educate the group that the Southwest and even slightly beyond, belongs to the Yoruba and no group or people can dispossess us of our heritage. This is supported by history. “We also call on the proper Fulani leaders to begin to speak out against the actions of these characters in the interest of our nation.” The PDP urged the six governors to expedite actions on measures that will rid their communities of elements, who pose threats to the safety and security of the people of the Southwest. “We urge governors in the Southwest to initiate security measures that will rid our communities of elements who pose a threat to our security and safety immediately. We also call on our Obas to begin to take concrete traditional security actions that will protect and maintain the peace of our region. Our peace is priceless