 EDO State All Progressives Congress (APC) is in a fix. Things have fallen apart. There is confusion among party followers and supporters as top party leaders are locked in a curious war of attrition. In whose interest is the persistent bickering? It is not certain which of the camps will win the battle over the soul of the distressed chapter. The two divides appear formidable. The snag is that they are working at cross purpose. Their combination is enough to checkmate their major foe, the Peoples Democratic Party  (PDP). If there is truce, both will savour the advantage of “strength in unity.” But, if the peace that has collapsed is not “revived,” the two sides should be prepared for the dire consequences. The two factions are wrecking havoc as their leaders continue to flex muscles and block the prospects of reconciliation. They have turned meeting venues and rallies into theatres of violence. Ahead of the governorship election, acrimony has displaced harmony in the hitherto united political platform. As Edo APC continues to nurse its self-inflicted wounds, it faces a hard reality. The poll that should ordinarily be a near walk over may become an uphill task that can herald its exit from the Osadebey House, the seat of government, if the gladiators refuse to pull the break. For now, the only solace is that the opposition too is in disarray. Warring party leaders have suddenly forgotten, in the spate of a decade, that power did not shift to the progressive bloc in the Southsouth state, in the days of the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), on a platter of gold. Gazing at the future, concerned party leaders are building scenarios. Fears are rife that, following the split, the shadow poll may be acrimonious and violent,  unless the major actors sheath their swords. A controversial primary may not be averted. This may further dent the image of the tension-soaked chapter and culminate in a disastrous post-primary crisis that can weaken the platform, ahead of the poll. A feature of the crisis may be litigation over the emergence of the flag bearer.  The bitter legal struggle between the two antagonistic camps may affect preparations for the election. The outcome will widen the gulf, breed more bitterness, dispose the aggrieved to subversion, and heighten the confusion. Unless order is restored into a state of political pandemonium, defections may lead to party decimation, following a shift of alliance. More dangerous is the antics of protesting members, who will not defect, but opt to work against the party as insiders. Many are also of the opinion that the attention of the governor may be diverted from governance as much resources and energy will be dissipated on conficts. Obaseki has some achievements to his credit. But, he may be slowed down by the challenges of the decisive moment. Predictably, the APC National Leader, President Muhammadu Buhari, will not openly take sides. Neither would he be able to  pacify the two divides and foster cohesion. During last year’s elections, when he visited Imo and Ogun states, the President played safe. The personal policy of non-interference was either a manifestation of split loyalty, indecision or lack of skill and capacity for crisis resolution. Although the president urged the people of the two states to vote for him, he could not campaign for APC governorship flag bearers. The crowd was stunned as the Commander-In-Chief asked them to vote for candidates of their choice. If the two factions in Edo sponsor goverorship flag bearers; one in APC and another in another opposition party, whst would be his reaction. Would President Buhari repeat his ambivalent campaign tactics? Both embattled “father and son”, who are locked in the inexplicable dispute in Edo, are enveloped in collective amnesia. The cord of love and unity between Comrade Chairman Adam’s Oshiomhole and Governor Godwin Obaseki has been severed by power, ego, complaints  about highhandedness, destruction of mutual understanding, intolerance, lack of strategic patience, unguarded activities of their army of adversarial supporters and sudden communication gap. The trust that permeated relations between former “Comrade Governor” and “Chairman of Economic Team” has evaporated. The predecessor/successor crisis is embarrassing to apolitical mutual friends of the two key characters in the unending logjam. At stake now is the governorship ticket of the crisis-ridden ruling party. The struggle for nomination will definitely deepen the discord.Two years ago, it appeared that the governor would have no rival during the selection of candidate. Today, the circumstances have changed. Obaseki is, no doubt, consolidating his hold, but on a faction. His supporters believe he wields the power of incumbency. The perception is that governors are powerful and it is risky to underrate them. But, it is not everytime that governors have succeeded in having their ways during succession crisis. Indisputably, Obaseki has many admirers among Edo people. But, they may not play any role during the primary. The nature of the primary, for now, is unknown. It may be direct or indirect exercise, or the joker of the national party leadership, which holds the power of last minute decision, in the face of protracted crisis. The other faction loyal to Oshiomhole is dreaming about the end of an era. It is not debatable that the base of the chairman is utterly divided. Aspirants in the camp controlled by him are warning up. They suddenly remembered that Obaseki was uncritically imposed on them four years ago by Leader Oshiomhole. Spoiling for a pound of flesh, they are not praying for peaceful resolution that will affect their partisan interests. For the two factions, it is a moment of emotional wrenching. The two camps are waxing stronger in their media confrontation. The supporters of the governor appreciate the nomination battle ahead. Governor Obaseki is the anointed candidate of the Obaseki faction for governor. He has no rival in his caucus. But, the competition among loyalists of Oshiomhole is intense. The antagonism cannot be curtailed. The scheming by aspirants has unleashed an unavoidable intra-group tension on the Oshiomhole caucus. Members are united against Obaseki. But, they are divided by the scramble for relevance, particularly the scheming for the governorship ticket. The puzzle is: who among the aspirants will the comrade anoint? Obaseki, who has started strengthening his own side of the party, has passed a vote of no confidence on the former governor. It is obvious that his is prepared for a “fight to the finish.” In the governor’s view, the predecessor is now a suspended member unfit for the critical assignment of national party leadership. If Oshiomhole’s fanatical supporters hold rally in any part of the state, it is a transgression. The Police IG has even been alerted to the “antics” of the combative chair. Oshiomhole, a veteran of many battles, is tactically responding to the threat by his estranged godson. He is keeping his strategies to himself. But, the crisis at home has affected his perception by other 36 chapters of the APC. The feeling now is that he cannot put his house in order. Why can’t he settle the rift in Edo, despite the fact that charity begins at home? The home front is a war zone of sorts. It is, therefore, a hot arena for the chairman. The former governor has a unit of his foot soldiers; the Edo Movement; very intact. The group has intensified its attack on the governor since the crisis exploded. But, there is another unit that is based in Abuja. The Abuja unit is in regular contact with the home division. This unit is made up of 14 aggrieved House of Assembly members-elect, associates of the Comrade  Chairman and others who have an axe to grind with Obaseki. Intermintenly, they fire salvos at Benin. The grouse of the camp loyal to Obaseki is that Oshiomhole is too domineering. Instead of concentrating on the task of national chairman, ‘he has not let go’ after his two terms of eight years. In anger, Obaseki retorted: “I am governor, but I am not allowed to be governor,” adding that when decisions on Edo, especially ministerial nomination and federal board appointments, were made, he was excluded.  