The Federal Government on Monday inaugurated the Expert Committee for the review of the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy (NDEPS) in Abuja. The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Pantami, said the objective of the review was to allow private sector input that would make the policy easier for implementation for a digital Nigeria. He said the government came up with the policy and strategy for digital Nigeria because countries were coming up with policies and strategies for digital economy. He noted that the global digital economy with an estimated value of $16million, is projected to take over 60 per cent of the world economy by the end of 2020. ‘‘The digital economy has started to dominate the economy of the world.  The value of digital economy is valued at over $16million.  According to World Economic Forum, by 2020, 60 per cent of the world’s economy is going to be digitalised. ‘’Countries are coming up with policies and strategies for digital economy. It is because of this based on the wisdom of President Muhammadu Buhari that this idea of Digital Economy Policy and Strategy, NDEPS came about,’’ he said. While charging the committee to be prompt in  ratifying the draft, Pantami  charged them to review the NDEPS draft for a digital Nigeria 2020-2030, with special focus on deliverables under the policies and strategies. He charged the committee to come up with effective implementation roadmap, looking at the policy and strategic aspect and see how that can be implemented effectively. Also, the Minister urged the committee to come up with a plan on the things to be executed on the policy and strategy. However, he told them that they were not restricted to the draft alone, but were free to bring in whatever they feel would be relevant to the policy, insisting that the committee is to make Nigeria not just a digital economy but globally competitive. He charged the committee to take the eighth pillars of NDEPS as a guide during the  exercise.