 Reactions have continued to trail the attack on the appointment of the former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief Bisi Akande as the Chairman of the party’s National Reconciliation Committee by the Ali Olanusi-led Unity Group. A group within the APC, the Continuity for Good Governance (CGG) has described the ‘vote of no confidence passed on the former Osun State governor as unhealthy and offensive. A statement by its spokesman, Prince Kayode Ehinlanwo said Akande’s appointment was a welcome development. The statement reads: “We laud this initiative and urge members of the party to be committed to the process. We particularly use this medium to warn members against insinuations capable of further fuelling the embers of discord in this hard earned process of reconciliation.” Reiterating its full support for Akande’s reconciliation committee, the CGG said: “For the avoidance of doubt,  Akande earned his enviable reputation as a man of integrity and self-contentment long ago. He is well respected across the globe with his humble background and political antecedent. “It was a big relief to many party faithful in Ondo State when he was nominated to bring his wealth of experience to bear in reconciling perceived disagreement in the state. “However, it is extremely painful to hear that some people purportedly rejected the good intentions of Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu to achieve a genuine and holistic peace in the Ondo State APC with the involvement of the former Osun State governor.  “We want to state here that for the records, no genuine APC faithful is interested in perpetual political bickering and unfounded imbroglio and brouhaha in the name of  petty politics in Ondo State. “It is time to outgrow all these political trivialities and anachronistic acrobatics and forging ahead. No amount of negative and unfounded allegations will pull off a feather from Chief Akande’s hard-earned integrity, reputation and political acceptability in the South west and Nigeria as a whole.” The group pointed out that reconciliation is a necessary tool that enhances democracy and that members should bury their ego and support the peace initiative of Governor Akeredolu. The statement noted that Ondo people have reached a consensus to support Akeredolu to serve for a second term, to continue his good work.  It urged dissenting voices to do the needful by supporting him. The group asked what exactly Olanusi and his group are really after. He added that they have rejected every sincere move both at the national and state level to move the party forward. The CGG called for the monitoring of the activities of the Olanusi-led group by faithful members. It added: “Are they working in tandem with the opposition to take over from the APC in the state by rejecting the idea of reconciliation put in place by the APC National Working Committee?  We hereby give Olanusi and his group seven days ultimatum to tender a public apology to Chief Akande for the unfounded statement credited to their group.” 