 THE Supreme Court judgment on Bayelsa State election has created mixed feelings in the state ahead of today’s expiration of the incumbent Governor Seriake Dickson’s administration. The judgment, which hit the state like a thunderbolt, sent the camp of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) into wild jubilation. It, however, caused confusion and despair in the All Progressives Congress (APC), which had concluded plans to take over the reigns of power today. Jubilation erupted in Bayelsa State Government House and the PDP secretariat in Yenagoa as PDP faithful trooped to the areas with drums to celebrate the judgment. But loud silence enveloped the APC and its leaders, who, it was gathered did not see the judgement coming. The APC had concluded all arrangements for a handover ceremony, which was to be attended by President Muhammadu Buhari before the report of the judgment hit Bayelsa. All was set to receive Buhari. Flags of the PDP had been removed from a roundabout leading to the main gate of the Bayelsa State Government House at Onopa, Yenagoa. The roundabout was decorated with the flags of the All Progressives Congress (APC) ahead of the event. The PDP flags, which were hoisted on poles around the roundabout, were pulled down by aggrieved appointees of the governor, who protested non-payment of salaries to them on Tuesday. Some APC leaders were seen hoisting the APC flags on the empty poles signalling the end of PDP government in the state. As part of preparations for the inauguration, Lyon attended a parade rehearsal at the Samson Siasia Sports Complex, where the event is scheduled to hold. The incoming governor was taken through and taught the entire process of ceremonial takeover to get him ready for the event. Population has increased in Yenagoa following the arrival of invited guests from different parts of the world, it was learnt. All the hotels in Yenagoa were virtually fully booked by guests, who kept the city bubbling. But immediately after the judgement, PDP faithful rushed to the roundabout to pull down the APC flags. The Bayelsa State Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Daniel Iworiso-Markson has congratulated the standard bearer of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the November 16  governorship election, Senator Douye Diri and his running mate, Senator Lawrence Ehrudjakpor on their victory at the Supreme Court. He said: “I heartily congratulate Senator Douye Diri and Senator Lawrence Ewhrudjakpor for this befitting victory, as the Supreme Court has once more demonstrated it’s uprightness and credibility. “It is my deep conviction that Senators Diri and Ehrudjakpor will fulfill the  expectations and yearnings of Bayelsans, consolidate on the achievements of Governor Dickson  for a more prosperous state”.