The President, Quantity Surveyors Registration Board of Nigeria (QSRBN), Murtala Aliyu on Wednesday said corruption in the building industry was responsible for thousands of abandoned projects all over the country. Aliyu made this known during the 2020 annual assembly of registered quantity surveyors and induction of newly RQS in Abuja, with the theme, “Technology, Innovations, Opportunities and Challenges for the Construction Entrepreneur.” The president said anybody looking at a corruption template in the country; the construction industry takes a chunk of the areas responsible for corruption. He said the only way corruption can be curbed is to involve quantity surveyors from the start in budget preparation. Aliyu said he was involved in the building of a federal dam in 1991 and in 2020, and that the dam is still not completed, which explains the level of corruption out there. He said what the government does is to make a small provision annually, knowing that the small provision will only move the dam an inch and then stop there; the next year another small provision will be made. “On the site you will have to pay the site experts or engineers, pay for equipment and wait for the next provision, which will be the coming year. This is telling us that when government budgets, some groups of people sit somewhere to cut the budget by half and share the percentage across board and that is the end of that money that year,” Aliyu alleged. With the current Bureau of Public Procurement (BPP) arrangement, Aliyu said award of contract cannot go beyond certain percentage. According to him, it used to be 15 per cent, but it has reduced to 12per cent. So any project that will go beyond the boundaries of 15 per cent may have to go back for another assessment. “When projects are well prepared and managed, we should be able to achieve the appropriate cost and to achieve this means we must use the appropriate expertise,” Aliyu said. He insisted that the only way to curb corruption is to involve quantity surveyors in budget planning. “Government lose a lot to corruption in the building industry, though I cannot give specific amount that is why quantity surveyors are needed to give current benchmark to help plan and make budgetary provisions,” he said.