The Project Manager Ajemart, Osun State, Clement Adebayo, has said the commercial platform has recorded 6000 producers, with 2,000 of them showcasing their goods and services. In a statement, he listed the benefits of the platform established a year ago. He said: “One of the key benefits of the initiative is to create and raise employment by assisting local producers and sellers from Osun to increase the demand for their products through adequate market visibility which we believe will lead to the growth of the state. “In over one year, the programme has enumerated over 6,000 producers. They have been trained on marketing, sales fulfilment, customer service and provided relevant information about entrepreneurship. There are over 2,000 producers who have listed their products and services on the platform directly without the middleman.’’ He said the project was launched by Governor Gboyega Oyetola to make Osun more business and investment-friendly. A listed producer Kayode Afolabi explained that Ajemart, literally translated means ‘prosperity market’, is a market linkage service which connects farmers, food producers, artisans and medium-scale manufacturers to larger markets within and beyond Nigeria. “With the Ajemart digital platform, ajemart.com, users can easily shop for agricultural products, such like coconut oil, palm oil, fresh potatoes, fruits, etc., artifacts, building materials, textile materials, office and home furniture,” Afolabi, the President, All Farmers Association of Nigeria, Osun State Chapter,  added. One of the enlisted producers on Ajemart, Mr. Kayode Afolabi, the Managing Director of Agrikk Matas, said: “Product exposure, innovations and collaborations are the keys to the growth of Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector.’’ Afolabi, who is also, the President, All Farmers Association of Nigeria, Osun State Chapter, said through Ajemart producers connect buyers to outside Osun. The initiative has also identified over 200 top producers in Osun whose products are candidates for national inspiration for entrepreneurship. Notable among such are the local clay water dispenser from ATAMORA, the local engine oil from MOYE OIL, and nails, among others. Also, the Centre Manager, Technology Incubation Centre (TIC), Île-Ife Office, Mrs. Eunice Oladoyin, expressed hope that the move would result in commercialisation of products from Osun, fruitful collaborations in various sectors and technology transfer among entrepreneurs. Mrs. Victoria Oluwaseun, whose business is located in Obokun, Osun, said she believes the initiative will generate employment as a result of increase in demand for her products and consequently, and boost the state’s economy.