A few weeks ago, I wrote President Trump should lose the coming elections provided the Democrats remain sufficiently united and the establishment group does not alienate the progressive wing of that party.  On February 3, the Democratic Party held, in the state of Iowa, its first vote in the process of nominating its 2020 presidential candidate.  The exercise was either an attempted fraud or a monument to incompetence. Either way, one notion becomes ineluctable. American democracy, as imperfect as it always has been, is further corroding to the point that soon the full truth of its weaknesses shall be revealed. American democracy is illusory. The powerful oligarchy controlling the national economy will allow the average person the veneer of democracy as long as he wants only that which the elite is willing to give him. Let the average person deviate in any material degree from elite priorities, then all manner of devices, both rude and refined, will be employed to subvert the dreaded deviance. If need be, the powerful will buy, cheat or steal to keep the people from realizing the reach of their sovereign will. With few exceptions, politicians who rise to national prominence are those adept at convincing the people that their interests are the same as those of the rich and powerful. This is an extraordinary function requiring a fair amount of agility and even a heavier portion of dissembling. The Democratic Party elite can smell victory over Trump this year. But they have hurdles within their own party. Three people not of their ilk have presented themselves for the party nomination. Senator Sanders, Congressperson Gabbard and businessman Yang seek to materially reform the party and its policies. Of these three inconveniencies, Sanders is the most serious threat. Because of this, he is the one they despise even more than Trump albeit for completely different reasons. They want to remove Trump because he has exposed the hypocrisy of the political class by wallowing openly in that hypocrisy in a most shameless manner. Trump has to go so they can return the obscuring veil to where it once was. They fear Sanders because he wants to end the hypocrisy, veil and all. After months of skirmishes between progressives and moderates in debates and in the press, the initial battlefield would become the landlocked, Midwestern state of Iowa. The Iowa vote has traditionally been conducted by a caucus system. This particular caucus mechanism has some arcane features. The state is divided into roughly 1700 precincts. Voters literally visit a designated site like a school or church in each precinct. There, they gather at a place at that site reserved for supporters of a peculiar candidate. The votes for each candidate are then tallied. If a candidate does not achieve at least 15 percent of the total vote in that precinct, the candidate will not be allowed to retain his votes. His supporters have the option of transferring their votes to another person or going home. Once this winnowing of lower-ranked candidates has taken place, a second vote is taken. Using a special formula, the second round figures will be used to determine the state delegate totals from each precinct for a candidate; state delegates will later attend the state convention which will determine the future organization of the state party. Using a different formula but again based on the popular vote, the results of the second round of voting will also be used to determine the number of national convention delegates a candidate receives. The national delegates are ultimately the ones who select the presidential nominee. Iowa has 41 national delegates. This is but a fraction of the over 4000 delegates who will attend the national convention. In terms of actual numbers, Iowa is a small prize. In the realm of psychological and symbolic import, it looms large. Usually, the winner of Iowa enjoys a boost in the subsequent public opinion polls. Human nature is such that many heretofore undecided voters gravitate to someone perceived as a winner. This perception may greatly aid a candidate in the primaries that follow. This also may encourage donors to be more forthcoming. Thus, small Iowa has an impact much larger than its due. Against this backdrop, Senator Sanders, with his army of working class donors and by reaching out to minorities, seemed to be rising in the polls taken prior to the caucuses. Former VP Biden and Senator Warren seemed to have plateaued. South Bend Mayor Buttigieg, a darling of the corporate media and wealthy donor class, also seemed to be climbing in the polls. The caucuses were held as usual. Nothing seemed afoul in the precincts. Then chaos descended.  With approximately 200,000 votes to tally and transmit, the counting should have been finished before the dawn of the next day. However, the results were delayed. It was apparent to all watching that something had gone awry. After a night of uneasy silence and non-explanation, the Iowa chapter of the party attributed the delay to flaws in the mobile phone app that was devised for transmission of results. Slowly it started to dawn on the progressives that the fix was on and it would be against their favored candidate. The company that provided the phone app is owned by former Clinton staffers and donors. Like their political matriarch, these people thoroughly dislike Sanders. One of the firm’s owners is married to a senior Buttigieg staffer. Even more curiously, the Buttigieg campaign previously donated over 40,000 dollars to this firm.  More ominously, the firm’s name is “Shadow.” The conduct of elections is supposed to be based on openness and transparency. Entrusting a key element of the caucus to a company with such a nebulous, evasive name seems a bit ironic. In this instance, the name was ominously prescient. The name sounds like some nefarious outfit in a “Grade B” spy movie. In reality, it would contribute to a “Grade F” election in real time. Things went from bad to worse. Not until Wednesday, two days after the caucus, did the party begin to release partial results. This was curious. In a state of this manageable size and small number of voters, the actual tabulation sheets from all precincts could have and should have physically been transferred to a central location within hours.  That two days passed yet this transmission of results was incomplete is more than curious. Instead, the party released approximately 60 percent of the results when they should have been able to release the entirety if they had worked but at a snail’s pace. This partial release revealed that the pace of their effort was so slow that delay had to be an unstated objective. Compounding this imbalance, the partial release was not representative of the vote as a whole. The party’s initial release tilted to Buttigieg strongholds. They claimed this was coincidence. They claimed not yet to have the information from many of the areas where Sander held the presumptive lead. Most likely, this explanation was false.  The party hierarchy even at the state level is pitted against Sanders. Its impartiality is thus suspect. It likely wanted to create the impression that someone other than Sanders won. Buttigieg was only too happy to play the role and do so magnificently. Before jumping to the next primary state, Buttigieg in his valedictory speech to his Iowan supporters claimed victory. Joined at the ideological hip with the party hierarchy, the corporate media happily ran with the Buttigieg version of the contest because it fit their bias against the left-leaning Sanders. Attempting to insulate himself from criticism, Buttigieg cynically portrayed this as a historic moment in the nation’s political evolution when an openly gay man first won the presidential primary of a state. In draping himself with the banner of history, Buttigieg was trying to position himself as the gay Obama to the extent Buttigieg even started mimicking the cadence of Obama’s public addresses. Also by doing this, he sought to blunt criticism of his premature victory announcement by making potential critics afraid of being tagged homophobic for berating him. For two days, Buttigieg was being declared the winner by the media although much of the tally remained outstanding. Then news began seeping out of Iowa that something more than gross incompetence was at play. In some areas, Sanders votes had been assigned to weak candidates such as Tom Steyer and Deval Patrick, the latter who did not even campaign in Iowa. The most blatant of these switches was in Black Hawk County. In that county, Sanders led by garnering over 2100 votes. Buttigieg had roughly 1500.  But when the party headquarters released the county figures, Sanders’ number had been reduced to roughly 1600. An inexplicable drop of 25 percent! This discrepancy was uncovered only because the Black Hawk County party caucus supervisor was honest enough to complain about the vote swaps and to use Twitter to release the county’s proper figures. Subsequently, a similar switch was discovered in Polk County. Discrepancies were also found in other counties throughout the state. The common thread in all of these purportedly innocent mistakes is that the mishap always injured Sanders. For such a string of mistakes always to line up against one out of several people is odd. The randomness of such a string is akin to the chances of 10 consecutive coin tosses giving the same result each time. In one particular odd instance, a coin was actually tossed to determine who would win a delegate. The person who tossed the coin caught it midair instead of letting the coin hit the ground as such tosses should go. Next the man was seen massaging the surface of the coin and spinning the coin in his hand as if trying to determine which surface was heads or tails so that he might insure a certain outcome. Predictably, Sanders lost the coin flip and delegate to Buttigieg. At one point, things got so bad that after releasing 85 percent of the results, the information was retracted because of multiple discrepancies in the figures given. Even with these incidents, the more votes they counted, the more it appeared the Buttigieg victory declaration was premature. After the party claimed it had repaired the defects in its release at the 85 percent level, it published what was stated to be 97 percent of the results.  Based on this 97 percent, Sanders held an insurmountable lead over Buttigieg in the popular vote, by over 6000 votes in the first round and 2500 in the second (44.753 for Sanders and 42,235 for Buttigieg). Despite this lead, Buttigieg had a razor thin lead in state delegates (550 to 547). They were tied at 11 each in the number of national delegates. Despite Sanders popular vote lead, the media has actively hawked the story of a Buttigieg victory. The day after the caucuses, the New York Times predicted a Buttigieg victory was over 90 percent certain. By Thursday, the same paper quietly reversed itself, now stating that Sanders has a better chance at the win. The only metric by which Buttigieg leads is the state delegate count. However, it makes little sense that the media should trumpet the state delegate count as the prime indicator. The state delegate count matters only within the state party organization. The number of national delegates, the ones who will select the presidential nominee, is determined by the popular vote. In makes even less sense for the party to use the state delegate figures as the metric for victory over the popular vote totals. After all, the party was bitterly upset when Clinton won the 2016 popular vote but lost the election due to the peculiarities of the Electoral College. Given the trends in the popular vote, Sanders still had a better than even chance of overtaking Buttigieg in the state delegate count. However, the Democratic Party national chairman has moved to prevent that from happening. With only 3 percent of the precincts left to count, the national chairman mysteriously called a halt to the count. That the national chairman would do this is not surprising. Previously, he has openly asserted that his party has no place for the European-style democratic socialism that Sanders advocates. Again, in one of those strange coincidences, the remaining precincts are perceived as heavily pro-Sanders. If true, finishing this count might finish Buttigieg’s victory claim. The establishment does not want this. The establishment would rather see Buttigieg, an ally of the intelligence apparatus and a beneficiary of Wall Street Money Power, claim victory no matter how tainted. They want to do everything possible to deny Sanders, who champions the common man, a victory. One thing beyond dispute in this maelstrom is the weak showing of former VP Biden who was the putative champion of the establishment. Biden’s campaign in Iowa was weak and uninspiring. He is now in trouble among the Democratic elite. The hyper ambitious Buttigieg now thinks he will replace Biden as the man for the elite. He is mistaken; but his vanity prevents him from seeing that if he is their man, it is only for the moment. Former New York City Mayor Bloomberg now looms over the party like a heavy cloud laden with money, a veritable bank in the sky. Worth 55 billion dollars, Bloomberg is poised to show everyone that America’s democracy is the best that money can buy but only if the purchaser is among the highest of the high rollers. Bloomberg can easily shell out 1-3 billion dollars for the campaign season. This would pay for a presidential campaign as well as a sizeable portion of congressional contests while leaving the national chairman and party executive swimming in money for the foreseeable fortune. He already has given money to key congressional candidates; these people will have to endorse his candidacy as the payments were intended to buy their loyalty. He has already spent several hundreds of millions on television ads. After Bloomberg paid a paltry 300,000 dollars to the party and gave another 800,000 to an allied political action committee, the party changed its rules to allow him to participate in the next debates. The rules had required that a candidate have a certain minimum number of donors. This was in order to prevent the occurrence of a plutocrat like Bloomberg from building a campaign solely around his own money and with little evidence of popular support. In effect, Bloomberg exudes the promise of enough money to get the part to retract a rule intended to keep a single person from using his own money to finance his campaign and potentially dominate the party. This is akin to saying that if you kill one person you are a criminal but if you kill one million people you attain the status of a national hero. The truth of the matter is that the party operatives would gladly hand the nomination to Bloomberg today if they could. Secure that he will pay them, they could care less if genuine democracy became a casualty of their pecuniary self-interests. Once sufficiently paid, these operatives could really care less if Bloomberg beats Trump of vice versa. The campaign would be mere theatrics. A fight of the rich against the super-rich for who will inherit the joyful task of deceiving the population that he governs in their interests. Sanders will carry on. Every step of the way, his path will be strewn with unfair pratfalls. Progressives can tolerate losing if the contest is fair. If Iowa proves to be an accurate barometer, fairness will not be present unless it is forced on the party by a heretofore unknown greater power. If the party continues to maltreat Sanders, many progressives will avoid the party come the November elections no matter who the candidate will be Bloomberg, Buttigieg, Clinton or otherwise. They will do so because they would have rightfully concluded the party wants their vote but not them.  The party would have repeated the mistake made in 2016 but with double the willfulness. With the Iowa debacle and with his impeachment victory so freshly at hand, Trump has reason to gloat. If he is reelected, the story of his victory would have begun this week. In the meantime, Africa should well take note. Those who view America as the zenith of democratic practice must inhabit a dense fog of myth impenetrable by the actual state of things. Any time America seeks to lecture you on democratic elections in the future, there is no need for wordy, convoluted defense. There is but one word to say: Iowa. +2348060340825 sms only