 Poor David Lyon. For many hours penultimate Thursday, the Chief Executive Officer of Darlon Oil and Gas Nigeria Limited was in the scorching February sun in Yenagoa rehearsing the moves for his inauguration as the governor of Bayelsa State. He had contested the governorship election in the state on November 16 last year as the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with a certain Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo as his running mate. In the manner of a lion (as his name is pronounced), he waded through the odds of the massive support his closest rival and candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Douye Diri, enjoyed from the then governor, Hon. Seriake Dickson, to win the election in a landslide. The announcement of Lyon by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as the winner of the election was for the CEO of Darlon Oil and Gas the climax of a life-long dream. For three months after he was declared the winner of the election, Lyon lived in fantasy land, continually pinching himself to be sure that his declaration as Bayelsa State governor-elect was not a product of hallucination on his part or on the part of the electoral umpire. His anxiety was further heightened with an unnamed organisation reportedly giving him an award as the best governor even while he was yet to be sworn in. So it was until the eve of his inauguration when five justices of the Supreme Court led by Justice Mary Odili delivered judgment declaring Senator Diri of the PDP the rightful candidate to be sworn in as Bayelsa State governor! Going by the Supreme Court judgment, Lyon was in no way the architect of the ugly fate that befell him, but he has to take the blame for choosing or accepting Degi-Eremienyo, a man whose academic certificates are shrouded in controversy, as running mate. According to the judgment, each of Degi-Eremienyo’s certificates from primary school to the university bore different names. In primary school, it was Degi Biobara. Documents from his secondary education bore Adegi Biobarakumo while that of the university bore Degi Biobarakuma. His MBA certificate had Degi Biobarakuma Wangaha while as deputy governor-elect, he bore Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo. Not even the chameleon in all its transitional glory can boast his ability to transmute from one personality into another at the shortest of notice. The Supreme Court justices in their wisdom could not fathom how a man parading four or five certificates, each with a different name, can honestly claim to own or earn them. That became the basis upon which they invalidated not just Degi-Eremienyo’s election as Bayelsa State deputy governor but also that of Lyon, the governor-elect and his would be boss. It is not certain what fate awaits Degi-Eremienyo with the growing clamour that he should be prosecuted for forgery. But it is as sure as daybreak that he will enter the record books as the second Nigerian after the rambunctious governor of Kano State in the Second Republic, Alhaji Barkin Zuwo, to attempt a redefinition of the concept of running mate. As a governorship aspirant at the time, a reporter was said to have asked Zuwo who his running mate was and he sensationally said it was his fiercest political rival, Alhaji Abubakar Rimi. “How so?” asked the curious reporter.  “He is always running after me,” Zuwo retorted. While Zuwo’s bold attempt to change the meaning of running mate from partnership to rivalry did not succeed, we will all have to wait to see how long Degi-Eremienyo’s action and its consequences on Lyon can go in changing it from partnership to albatross.  In spite of his public declaration that he holds nothing against Degi-Eremienyo for the role he played in the annulment of his mandate, Lyon would most likely be regretting in his private moments that he settled for a chameleon in his search for a partner that would facilitate his electoral victory. But there lies the big question: should a governorship candidate suffer dysentery because his running mate consumed excess sugar?  The poser was reflected on by a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Louis Alozie, in a story published by The Nation on Tuesday, wherein he contended that the Supreme Court should not have voided Lyon’s election but allow him to pick another running mate. By voiding the election, he said, the Apex Court took away the right of the people of Bayelsa State to choose their leader. Alozie said: “For me, the decision violates the sanctity of ballot box. It is the inviolable right of the people to choose their leaders. The Supreme Court seems to have taken away that right. A deputy governor or vice president has always been known to be a spare tyre. The election in question is governorship election and not deputy governorship election. My view is that after the election, where it is found that the deputy governor is not qualified, the governor ought to be allowed to choose another deputy. This was the position taken by the courts in Nwakanma Okoro Vs Sam Mbakwe in 1979. Mbakwe’s running mate was found disqualified (but) Mbakwe was allowed to choose another deputy. He chose Prince Isaac Uzoigwe in place of Dr Bernard Amalaha. His election was not voided.” The decision of the Supreme Court to throw the baby away with the bath water no doubt falls short of the expectations of most rational minds. Still the message conveyed by the Degi-Eremienyo episode must not be lost on those who are quick to think that running mates or deputy governors are of no more significance than idle spare tyres. If nothing else, the incident justifies the Yoruba saying that a crippled man may not be blessed with enough fingers to milk a cow but he sure has more than it takes to spill the milk. Governors who have no regard for their deputies will do well to learn from Lyon’s ugly experience. Otherwise, they may do so the hard way.