Suspected thugs have allegedly attacked the Kwara State Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bashir Bolarinwa and other members of the party’s executive council (exco). The attack on Tuesday evening confirmed the crisis within the Kwara APC. It was gathered that members of the party’s excos were attacked at Shao in Moro Local Government. During the attack, the party’s bus that conveyed chieftains was reportedly damaged by the hoodlums. The Nation learnt that the windscreen of the bus was shattered by the thugs, who threatened to injure the party chairman and his team. A source said members and supporters ran for safety. Confirming the incident, the state APC Vice Chairman, Mr. Sunday Oyebiyi, described the attack as unfortunate, saying it could lead to disintegration of the party. He said that police permit was sought and got on the planned tour of the 16 local governments, especially when some members of the party opposed it. Oyebiyi, who is also the zonal chairman, (Kwara North), was on the entourage of the party chairman to Shao. He said that party members were awaiting the outcome of the intervention by elders. Oyebiyi urged members to remain calm and embrace peace. Governor AbdulRahman  Abdulrazaq has condemned the attack on the APC chairman and his entourage. He urged the police to fish out the perpetrators and prosecute them. The governor in a statement by his media aide, Rafiu Ajakaye, described the attack as disturbing. The statement said: “We condemn in strongest terms, the alleged attack on the state Chairman of the APC, Hon. Bashiru Omolaja Bolarinwa, allegedly by some hoodlums in Moro Local Government. “This is very disturbing. The governor is very proud of the peaceful atmosphere in the state and frowns at any action that may heat up the polity under whatever guise. “He calls on the security agencies to not just fish out those behind the attack, but to also make sure they face the full weight of the law. “For the record, the state faces many developmental issues and the governor has no time for anything that does not add value to the lives of the people he has been elected to govern.” 