President, Nigeria Labour Congress, Comrade Ayuba Wabba has upbraided the federal government for the new policy regime stipulating a 6% stamp duty fee for every tenancy and lease agreement in the country. In a statement issued by the NLC boss at the weekend, he expressed dismay over a policy he described as “unfortunate.” It may be recalled that the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) last Thursday stipulated a 6% stamp duty fee for every tenancy and lease agreement in Nigeria, According to him, the new policy regime would worsen the deplorable situation faced by Nigerian workers most of whom, unfortunately, are tenants. In the statement which reads in part, Wabba impressed on the FIR the need to reverse the policy. “We call on the Federal Government and the Federal Inland Revenue Service to rescind this harsh fiscal measure as it is boldly insensitive to the material condition of Nigerians which has been compounded by the Covid-19 health insurgency. Nobody would want to be a tenant if they had alternative. This means that tenants which this new policy targets are some of the most vulnerable people in our society. It would be illogical, insensitive and inhumane to churn out laws that make our poor go to bed at night with tears in their eyes. “The principle of public taxation especially progressive taxation all over the world is that the rich subsidises for the poor. Every tax policy that would be enforceable must create a safety net for the poor. Recent policies of government indicate otherwise. Accommodation is a fundamental right guaranteed by Nigeria’s constitution. It is unimaginable that tenants who are in the most vulnerable group would be expected to pay 6% tax for accommodation when sales tax is 1.5%. This is indeed a great injustice against the Nigerian poor. Government must take deliberate steps to avoid institutionalising the widespread belief that it is a crime to be poor in Nigeria.” While acknowledging that the government needs money to run the business of governance especially at this time of economic challenges all over world, he however, said, “The answer is not in further exploiting the already exploited. There is no doubt that there are other painless ways of mobilising funds to deal with the exigency of the times. “While we expect the reversal of the 6% tenancy and lease stamp duty policy, we remind government that its highest responsibility is to ensure the security and welfare of every Nigerian. It is a social contract. It is a sacred duty!”