Bobby Chris Onyeocha, whose stage name is Bobby Combz, had a singular influence on House Music in Nigeria before moving to South Africa where he lives permanently. Bobby Combz studied at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka and has remained passionate about music production. Ace novelist and filmaker Onyeka Nwelue interviewed him. I know you but for the sake of your fans, who don’t know you, tell us about you. How was childhood? Where were you born? Great!! My real name is Bobby Chris Onyeocha. I was born into a military household in Navy Town, Ojo Barracks, Lagos. I was raised by my father Rtd Navy Cdr Chris Onyeocha, who was in the Navy at that time. Growing up in a military environment was pretty interesting. Military kids are the smoothest. Like you have to be a little criminal to escape our tough folks. Such amazing memories. I spent most of my childhood schooling in Navy Town. Basketball was my first love. The music dream only started when I turned 15yrs old and the rest is history. We have seen pictures of you and other popular artistes. Which are the ones you have worked with? Well, quite a bunch. I’ve produced on albums by DJ Jimmy Jatt, Yung6ix, Skales and associated with several acts like Seyi Shey, General Pype, Falz, Ajebutter 22, Gina, Tyler Moshoodi, BLK JKS, Moonchild Sanelly and many others. You currently live in South Africa? How is it working with musicians there? And which ones have you worked with? There are many talented people here with amazing work ethics. I find working here quite awesome because there’s a proper structure than back home. The industry here is transparent and vulnerable that is if you really know your business. I’ve worked with Blk Jks, Moonchild Sanelly, Elo Zar, LHF, Terry Leigh etc. I still have these amazing young talents I have been working with for a while now under an NGO called the “Global Funding Project,” which just got launched by me and my associates. So, guys please watch the space. Are there new releases in the coming months? Most definitely. Music is a way of life. What do you hope to achieve with your music? Who is your target audience? I sincerely don’t have a target audience. I think that’s a limitation to my art. It’s way beyond art. I hope my music cuts across like minds and unlike minds, regardless of age, sex, race etc. My greatest achievement would be spreading love to young African youth through my music. I would like to see myself as a leader. Where do you see yourself in the next five years? I really can’t be precise because this dream gets bigger even as it gets tougher but I’m sure I should be my own boss my then. Jah willing! You have worked with artistes like Gina. Which other female artistes have you worked with and how is it working with women? Any different from the men? I’ve worked with a couple from the Moonchild Sanelly’s to the Sarah Flames’. You don’t know Sarah Flames yet but she’s this super talented 13 year old that myself and my colleagues discovered. Anyway, female artists are way much easier to work with trust me. That manly pride or male ego, gets in the way with most male artistes. Tell us about your new EP. My new EP is still under construction but it’s definitely going to be a reflection of the life and times of ‘Bobby Combz’. As in the journey so far. Would you only do House Music? Not really. No limitations. Working with different artists definitely expanded my mind so expect more genres on my upcoming project. When do you release an album? In 2 years, I should be ready. 