Invitation to treatment centres are not intended as punishment or persecution for those positive with the COVID-19 infection, the Federal Government stated Monday. While appealing to persons who neither feel nor show symptoms of the infection to oblige to the call to treatment centres, it also urged states to isolate other asymptomatic cases who may not qualify for supervised self-isolation for the period they are deemed to be infectious or are at risk of infecting the vulnerable. The Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, disclosed this during the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 briefing in Abuja. He said, “With regards to certain petitions and reports available to me, I need to appeal to citizens especially those COVID-19 positive patients who feel no symptoms at all, not to take invitation to treatment centres as persecution or punishment but to cooperate with health officials and understand that measures taken are protective measures in the interest of all. “States will therefore be encouraged to use all opportunities to isolate other asymptomatic cases who may not qualify for supervised self-isolation for the period they are deemed to be infectious or are at risk of infecting the vulnerable. “It will also mean scaling up treatment and isolation centres in all states and the logistics for managing the centres. “The unfortunately figures of COVID-19 we see in other countries every day are sobering and must instruct us that it is not the way we want to go. To protect ourselves more I must advise citizens again that it is not enough to ask what is government doing. “The question is now also what are you doing whether as communities, associations or individuals – we are all in this together. It is not only the Federal Government assignment alone. “If we do not cooperate, work together, make sacrifices, and refused to get tested or treated, if we decide that whatever we do infects others, any one of us could be responsible for one of the cases leading to death in this country.” “The reduction in case fatality rate is down to about 2.2 percent as opposed to about 5 percent we have seen on the global average, and it is in line with our plan going forward. “It also draws our attention to the speed with which COVID-19 is growing – the time it took to double itself, and the reminder that we need to improve on our responses. We will continue to strive for the best and prepare for worse. “It is also the plan of the Federal Ministry of Health to boost overall COVID-19 sample collection by preparing all eligible public and private hospitals nationwide to become collection centres. “This will require enormous efforts by States government and National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA) to identify the facility that can be used and the space within them. “We will also need to conduct training for the personnel selected, supply chain for personal protective equipment (PPEs) and sample collection kits, as well as the all-important logistics to go around to recover test samples.”