The Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) Justice Ibrahim Muhammad should investigate the transfer of two cases affecting the All Progressives Congress (APC) leadership in Rivers State, the Free People’s Social Club and Good Leadership Initiative has requested. According to the group, the President of the Court of Appeal (PCA), Justice Monica Dongbam-Mensem, transferred the cases from  Port Harcourt division of the appellate court to Abuja under “in very curious circumstances.” The transfer, the group alleged, is in the interest of a minister from Rivers State. The two cases are: CA/PH/ZlS/ZOZO between All Progressives Congress vs Rt. Hon. lgo Aguma &Ors. and CA/PH/ 190/2020 between Mr Isaac Abott Ogbobula Vs Rt. Hon. lgo Aguma, All Progressives Congress and Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. Justice Dongbam-Mensem, it claimed further, transferred the cases unilaterally, without a petition, without the knowledge of one of the parties and in the absence of any security crisis in the Port Harcourt Division. This, in its view, was not a judicious use of the PCA’s power of transfer. The July 24 petition, signed by the group’s President Samuel Chima, and director of administration Issa Mohammed, said it knew Justice Dongbam-Mensem “to be an upright jurist”, but that the probe was in the interest of justice. The petition reads: “There are several Appeals filed in the Port Harcourt Division of the Court of Appeal. These Appeals from our findings have to do with the leadership tussle in the All Progressives Congress APC in Rivers state that was entertained and dispensed of in the trial courts. “In very curious circumstances, the PCA ordered the transfer of all the appeal case files in what may be in the interest of a certain politician. “We also draw your Lordship’s attention to the fact that there is no known petition whatsoever against the Appeal Court Justices in Port Harcourt Division or security crisis of any sort to warrant that any and all Appeals filed in Port Harcourt in respect of APC legal tussle in Rivers state, without being heard is arbitrarily transferred to Abuja Division of the Court of Appeal.”