The ongoing investigative probe of the embattled Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu, is meant to give him the opportunity to respond to allegations leveled against him. There were indications on Tuesday afternoon that Magu’s suspension might have been recommended by the panel investigating him, although no official source was available to confirm this as at the time of filing this report. A reliable presidential source, who explained the reason for Magu’s investigation, also said the Justice Ayo Salami-led investigative panel became necessary because of the anti-corruption bent. The source also noted the ongoing investigation of Magu had come out to prove that no public servant, no matter how highly placed, is above scrutiny, especially when there are allegations as weighty as those leveled against the embattled anti-corruption Czar. According to the source: “The panel investigating allegations against Ag. EFCC Chairman had been sitting for some weeks now. “In consonance with the principle of fairness and justice, it was needful that the Ag. Chairman be given opportunity to respond to the allegations, which are weighty in nature. “Under the Muhammadu Buhari administration, nobody is above scrutiny. Repeat: nobody. “The investigation is to reinforce transparency and accountability, rather than to vitiate it. “Accountability for our actions or inactions is inalienable part of democracy. “In such elevated position as that of EFCC Chairman, the holder of the position must be above suspicion. “There’s no prejudgment. Absolutely none. The Buhari administration can be counted on to uphold fairness and justice at all times,” the source said. Magu was on Monday grilled for several hours by a special Presidential Investigation Panel in one of the rooms inside the State House Conference Centre over allegations of various improprieties. He was reportedly detained over the night at the Force Criminal Investigation Department (FCID) from about 10:30pm on Monday.