The District Governor of Rotary District 9125 Jumoke Bamigboye has commended the leadership of the National Assembly for donating two months salaries of members towards the fight against the spread of the corona virus pandemic in the country. Bamigboye stated this during a courtesy visit to the Deputy Leader of the House of Representatives, Peter Akpatasin in his office at The National Assembly, Abuja. She said the gesture was commendable because it was the first time the Parliament was making such sacrifice stressing that it is an indication that the NASS leadership and members were truly concerned about the wellbeing of Nigerians. Bamigboye who was inaugurated the first female Governor of District 9125 this week  said she was in Deputy House Leader’s office to solicit his support and other members during her tenure. She disclosed that making water available to the rural communities would be her primary focus even as the fight against corona virus pandemic remains critical. The District Governor also told her host that though Nigeria has been declared polio free, there was still need to continue the national immunization programme as child bearing continues in the country. To that end she said, “We will still be needing people like you in rotary’s advocacy programmes to sensitise our people on the importance of immunization so that our nation remains polio free”. The District Governor also used the ocassion of the visit to formally induct the Deputy House leader into Rotary club of Abuja Karu Housing Estate where he had been a fellow for the past two years. She also commended Akpatasin for his past contributions towards humanity through the rotary platform. Responding, the Deputy Leader congratulated Bamigboye for blazing the trail of being the first female Governor of District 9125. He said he was also proud that she is a daughter of the South-South Region pledging to support her during her tenure. The District Governor was accompanied on the visit by her husband, Colonel Theophilus Bamigboye, former Military Governor of Kwara State, Assistant Governor, Dominic Ifidon, Nimi Lawrence, the President of Rotary Club of Abuja Karu Housing Estate, Wale Raimi and  Titus Agbo, all members of Rotary Club of Abuja Karu Housing Estate.