It is not unexpected that the powers and principalities Magu had fought more intensively these past five years and whose lawyers had at different times complained about the media trial of their clients would gloat over his current travails, the result of rivalry between Buhari’s warring ‘loyal gate keepers’. The case against Magu as quoted from Alhaji Abdullahi Ibrahim committee report are: apart from the discrepancy of more than N31bn in the amount Magu’s EFCC reported,  his “failure to report on the interest on actual N550b lodgements clearly establishes that its interest element has been re-looted”; using  one Pastor Omale to launder N573m to acquire Dubai property, a claim already denied by the pastor’s lawyers;  paying a prominent Lagos-based senior advocate N28m  and failing to cooperate with the UK’s National Crime Agency thereby stalling Alison-Madueke from being charged to court. It is just as well that Magu according to government ‘is being availed the opportunity to defend himself and answer the allegations against him’. Regarded by his peers as ‘an incorruptible and courageous officer’, Magu was the one saddled with the investigation of Bukola Saraki in the collapse of Societe Generale Bank of Nigeria as well as James Ibori, former governor of Delta and other high-profile politicians. When the Ibori case was bungled in Asaba High Court, he followed it up to London where Ibori was eventually jailed by Southwark Crown court on April 17, 2012 for 13 years after he pleaded guilty to 10 counts of money laundering and stealing $50m from the Delta State treasury. The forces of Ibori and Saraki were to later run Ribadu out of town and Magu out of EFCC into detention. It was therefore not a surprise that when his name was presented for confirmation by the senate,  Daura’s DSS brief about Magu’s alleged flight to Maiduguri alongside Mohammed and Nnamdi Okonkwo of Fidelity Bank who were then being investigated by EFCC and the alleged award of contract by FCDA to his Africa Energy to furnish his residence, were all the 8th Senate needed to reject his nomination. Working for Buhari, Magu fought zealously like a slave leaving his rear open. He fought all those who partook in Dasuki-gate slush fund without sparing elders statesmen like Chief Olu Falae, who got N100m on behalf of his Social Democratic Party, (SDP), Chief Rashidi Ladoja, leader of Accord Party who got N100m and elder statesman Alhaji Tanko Yakassai who got N63m for his group. Following Obanikoro’s confession that he took N4.745billion from the Office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA), EFCC linked Fayose’s  portion of  N2b he personally took to the purchase of three choice properties in Abuja and Lagos through fronts  in addition to his N1.1b Tiamiyu Savage Street house in Victoria Island, Lagos which EFCC also claimed  was the proceeds of kickback from government contractors – Samchese Nigeria Limited, Tender Branch Concept Nigeria Limited, Hoff Concept Limited and Calibre Consulting Limited. Magu did not spare President Jonathan who liberated and rehabilitated him. The forces that demoted and replaced Ribadu with a candidate of their choice before chasing him out of the country had also arrested, detained and suspended Magu from the police for several months without salary before he was finally transferred out of EFCC ‘for illegally keeping case files of top politicians being investigated by EFCC in his house’. Although Magu’s EFCC claimed Patience Jonathan was never the target of their probe but a former Special Adviser on Domestic Affairs to ex-President Jonathan, Waripamowei Dudafa, to whom the four company accounts  with a balance of $15m had been traced, the ex-first lady turned up to lay claim to the money, first claiming it was a gift and later an inheritance from her late mother, Madam Charity Fyneface Oba.  Magu, despite demonstrations by the Bayelsa youths, PDP stalwarts and the take-over of Lagos and Abuja streets by demonstrating women from Niger Delta along with some 23 different groups in solidarity with Jonathan’s wife, insisted the money must be ceded to the state. Magu then took on the Bar claiming it was “populated or directed by people perceived to be rogues and vultures (that) cannot play the role of priests in the temple of justice”. He challenged Abubakar Mahmoud, it’s newly installed president who had canvassed for the withdrawal of the prosecutorial powers of the EFCC to tell Nigerians why they should have faith in his prosecutorial superiority when he as the federal government appointed prosecuting counsel in the trial of James Ibori, at the Federal High Court, Asaba, bungled the case which EFCC lost in questionable circumstances while the same ingredients from that case were used to fetch Ibori a 13-year jail term in London. Magu also did not forget to tell Nigerians the new NBA president “was also EFCC’s counsel in the appeal against the infamous perpetual injunction from arrest and prosecution by former Rivers State governor, Peter Odili. Finally, he also reminded Mahmoud that of the over 200 fraudulent bankers responsible for the collapse of the banking sector, only few were brought to justice in a period spanning eight years when the brief were given to senior members of the Bar. Magu then took on the Generals who as ‘custodians’ of our constitution often claim ‘they are sacrificing their present for our future’. They, like politicians who believe ‘stealing government fund is not corruption’ were dragged to court where it became clear many of our military officers were anything but soldiers of fortunes while their politician counterparts were men with feet of clay. But we don’t need to weep for Magu who may be ending up like his predecessors, Nuhu Ribadu, Farida Waziri and  Ibrahim Lamorde  who were  framed up, disgraced  and demoted because like them he could still be vindicated. Our problem is absence of governance under President Buhari’s ‘government of delegation by abdication”. In fact others like Wole Soyinka whose commitment to Nigeria has never been in doubt has said President Buhari is not in charge. with APC behaving like an onlooker, Buhari and Osinbajo, both men of faith unlike leaders of Saudi Arabia and Israel, the custodian of Abrahamic religion, devoting more time to prayers while abandoning our nation to caprices of warring ‘loyal gate keepers’, one can hardly fault Wole Soyinka. The president swore by Magus’s name, but Lawal Daura, a law on to himself, invaded the houses of Supreme Court Justices in the night and National Assembly with hooded security operatives undermined the nomination at the senate. Abba Kyari sidelined Minister of Health, Professor Isaac Adewole and mandated minister of agriculture to procure medical equipment and execute the ministry’s contracts. The minister of agriculture in breach of the constitution moved to Benue State overnight and started erecting RUGA settlement without consulting the governor. DSS and EFCC officials were almost shooting themselves on the streets of Abuja. As the war of ‘loyal gate keepers’ became intensified, the only presence of government is its absence. EFCC’s 25-member board has not been constituted since 2015. The CBN which is expected to be a member is yet to have its own board constituted. In the absence of the small governments needed to govern, overwhelmed appointees constitute themselves into small oligarchies. Thus, Magu to the envy of Malami who worries about “Abacha loot” in the absence of a board to check his excesses, disposes off looted properties; AMCON sells seized assets and customs sell seized cars, textiles and rice. President Buhari, on whose table the buck stops, is the problem.