There are multiple reports in France and Italy that Napoli have finalised all the paperworks for Victor Osimhen, with Napoli youth team defender Claudio Manzi going to Lille. Sky Sport Italia, RMC Sport, Tuttomercatoweb and more all maintain the final contracts have been signed, as they were waiting to resolve an issue with his agent. Football Italia claimed it’s up to Napoli President Aurelio De Laurentiis to announce the deal, as is his tradition, on Twitter. But Osimhen’s former agent Jean-Gerard Benoit Czajka is spoiling for war amid claims that it was him and Napoli defender and Senegal’s captain Kalidou Koulibaly that convinced the Super Eagles striker to move to Italy. The Lille forward is reportedly only formalities away from being confirmed as Napoli’s next signing and his former agent Benoit Czajka has revealed the 21-year-old needed some convincing. “To be honest, Victor didn’t want to go to Italy,” Benoit Czajka told France Football. “From the beginning he refused to play in Serie A, fearing the problems of racism. “Even in March or April he told me: ‘I don’t want to play in Italy, even if it’s at Juve for €10m a year’.” But the reports in Italy have claimed the Nigerian was convinced after a trip to Naples and his former agent confirmed: “I told him that before having such strong ideas, he had to travel and see for himself. We did it in early July; we met with the coach, the sporting director and President [Aurelio] De Laurentiis, a man with values and experience. “Victor also spoke a lot with Koulibaly, who was decisive for his choice.” Miffed over his replacement by another intermediary, Czajka said it beggar belief why his former ward turned 360 degree in the middle of the transactions: “There were nonsense that were put in the head of the player. “We have always worked honestly with Victor, whom many agents cannot say, we are within our rights and if we have to go to court to keep face, we’ll go. “My lawyers have all the documents on the work done. I will therefore assert my rights in court. Afterwards, it is very likely that I can be offered an arrangement, which I will not accept,” he noted.