 THE controversial  probe of the theN40 billion sleaze in the Niger Delta Development  Commission (NDDC)  got messier on Thursday. The Acting Managing Director of the intervention agency, Prof. Kemebradikumo Pondei, walked out on members of the House of Representatives Committee on Niger Delta Affairs . Pondei cited  as reason, the headship of  the  probe committee by  Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo, whom he said was an “interested and accused party” in the ills bedeviling the  NDDC. He alleged that the NDDC had over time “accused   Tunji-Ojo of different crimes  against the NDDC and its people (officials) and he has responded in the press.” The acting managing director therefore, asked the panel chairman  to step aside and  an  ad hoc committee constituted  as conditions for his management team to defend itself. But,  the Niger Delta Affairs  Committee denounced his action, saying the IMC had till yesterday not formally communicated its chairman’s alleged offences to it in writing. It consequently issued a warrant of arrest on   Pondei and passed a vote of confidence on  Tunji-Ojo.. Pondei had said that the NDDC team would not get a fair hearing under the Tunji-Ojo-led committee. He said: “Let just say that we are not comfortable with the Chairman of this committee presiding over a matter in which he is an accused party. “The NDDC has over time accused Hon.  Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo of different crimes against the NDDC and its people, and he has responded in the press. “He is an interested party and we do not believe that the NDDC can have justice because he cannot sit on his own case. “We have no issues with appearing before the committee because we appeared before the Senate Committee. And as long as he is the chairman of this committee, the NDDC will not make any presentations here.” But,  Benjamin Kalu, Ben Ibakpa and Shehu Koko told Pondei  that since there was no document indicting  their charman, he(Pondei)  was  duty bound by the constitution to answer queries.. Koko said:” If you have anything against the chairman of this committee, there are many ways you can report your matter. “You can write to the Police, the EFCC (Economic and  Financial Crimes Commission), ICPC(Independent Corrupt Practices and Other-Related Offences Commission) and   to this House. At the moment, we do not have any written communication from  the NDDC on the issue they have with the chairman, which is personal.” While Kalu said “it  is out of order for an invited guest to instruct us on how to regulate the activity of the House,”  Igbakpa, argued that whatever allegation  Ponder “made is in the air and it remains in the air. ” While more members were still making contributions to the issue, Pondei sought permission and walked out without waiting for the committee to either grant his request or reject it. Furious, the lawmakers accused the NDDC team of frustrating legislative functions and ordered that a warrant be issued for his arrest. The motion to issue the arrest warrant was moved by Kalu and seconded by   Koko. 