The prosecution in the trial of suspected kidnap kingpin Bala Hamisu (aka Wadume) and six others on Monday tendered before a Federal High Court in Abuja six guns the police said they recovered from Wadume. The guns, comprising AK-47 rifles and a pump-action, were tendered through a prosecution witness, Samuel Habila, an Inspector. Trial judge, Justice Binta Nyako, admitted the guns in evidence and marked them as Exhibits B and B1 to B5. Lawyers to the defendants – Ishaka Dikko (SAN), M. I. Toga, Y. Dandana, Amanze Amanze, Abass Ajiya and Lukman Fagbemi – did not object to the court admitting the guns in evidence. Led in evidence by prosecution lawyer, Mrs. Yetunde Adeola-Cole, Habila, who described himself as a member of the Police Intelligence Response Team (IRT), told the court that Wadume confessed during interrogation that he bought nine guns from Babangida Musa and sold four of them to some people he named simply as Danmaza and Halilu. The witness said all the guns were registered as CPR165, except one, adding: “There is a white paint written on one, while one is damaged.” He gave details of how Wadume was tracked and arrested in Kano after some soldiers assisted him to escape. Habila added that police operatives later stormed Ibi where Uba Bala was arrested and four AK-47 rifles were found. He said: “Bashir was also arrested, during which the two guns he bought from Uba Bala were recovered. “The two sets of rifles were hidden in his late mother’s house and the other in the ceiling. They were brought to Abuja for investigation. “During investigation, it was discovered that the day police officers arrested Wadume at Ibi, it was Baba Runs (the fifth defendant) that alerted the soldiers, brought a Sharon vehicle and chased the police officers. “It was the same Baba Runs that accompanied the soldiers who opened fire on the moving vehicle of the operatives. He was with them. As such, they were the first set of people to be on the scene of the accident. “Baba Runs told me that while the soldiers were having confrontation with the operatives, he stole one gun and ran away with it. “While he was hiding, the leader of the soldiers, Capt. Balarabe, called him on phone to bring the gun he stole from the police vehicle. “Baba Runs said he told Capt. Balarabe that the gun did not belong to him but to the policemen that had the accident. He added that he told Capt. Balarabe that he would not give him the gun.” At the point of tendering the defendants’ statements by the prosecution lawyer, lawyers to the defendants raised different grounds of objection. Lawyers to the first, third, fourth and fifth defendants – Ishaku Dikko (SAN), Y. D. Dangana, Amanzi Amanzi and Lukmon Fagbemi – objected on the grounds that the Hausa version of the defendants’ statements, which were allegedly translated into English, were not before the court. The defence lawyers promised to address the court on the issue at the stage of their final addresses. Lawyer to the second defendant (Inspector Aliyu Dadje) M. I. Tona told the court that his client was induced into making his statement. Tona added that his client was asked to implicate the soldiers in order to regain his freedom. Lawyer to Zubairu Abdullahi (the sixth defendant), Yakubu Philemon, claimed that his client was tortured into making his statement. The lawyers applied that a trial-within-trial be conducted to ascertained whether or not the defendants made their statements voluntarily, as claimed by the prosecution, a request Justice Binta Nyako granted. Testifying at the trial-within-trial, Dadje (second defendant) stated that after he was arrested, he was ordered to make a statement to favour the police. The sixth defendant (Abdullahi), while testifying during the trial-within-trial, claimed that he was tortured by Habila and his colleagues and forced to admit to what he knew nothing about. Testifying for the prosecution, in the trial-within-trial, Habila denied the claims by Dadje and Abdullahi. He said Dadje’s statement was taken in his presence by Inspector Joseph Iloju, who is a junior officer to the defendant. Habila said Dadje reported in Abuja by himself when he was notified that he was wanted. Justice Nyako adjourned till July 15 for continuation of trial. Those being tried with Hamisu, in a 13-count amended charge, are: a Inspector Aliyu Dadje, Auwalu Bala (aka Omo Razor), Uba Bala (aka Uba Belu), Bashir Waziri (aka Baba Runs); Zubairu Abdullahi (aka Basho) and Rayyanu Abdul. They are charged with terrorism, murder and kidnapping, among others.