Nigeria’s quartet of Alex Iwobi, Odion Ighalo, Kelechi Iheanacho and Wilfred Ndidi will be in action in the English Premier League this weekend for their various clubs. There are doubts over Alex Iwobi after sustaining a hamstring injury in Everton’s away loss to Tottenham midweek and it is unclear if he will have any role to play when the Toffees are at loggerheads against wounded Wolves (away) and Aston Villa (home) today and on Thursday. Odion Ighalo who has been used sparingly by Manchester United in all the seven games he played should be in the Red Devil’s squad for their Monday night fixture against Southampton (home) and Crystal Palace (away) on Thursday. The 31-year-old Nigerian is yet to score in the EPL but has five in 10 games in all competitions. The duo of Wilfred Ndidi and Kelechi Iheanacho will hope to salvage their top four aspirations with good results for Leicester City ahead of their away tie with relegation bound Bournemouth tomorrow and Sheffield United (home) on Thursday.  Kenneth Omeruo and Chidozie Awaziem continue relegation battle with Leganes while Samuel Chukwueze (Villarreal), Ramon Azeez ( Granada) and Oghenekaro Etebo (Getafe) have important duels with two leading Madrid teams in the La Liga Super Eagles defenders: Omeruo and Awaziem got a rare victory for relegation battlers, Leganes against Espanyol last Sunday and must continue their chase for La Liga spot when they tackle Valencia tomorrow at home and Athletic Bilbao at San Mames on Thursday. Chukwueze returned to winning ways with Villarreal in their 3-1 away victory over Oghenekaro Etebo‘s Getafe on Wednesday night after their nightmarish 4-1 home loss to Barcelona last weekend but they have games with Real Sociedad at home on Monday and a tougher one at the Stadio Alfredo Di Stefano on Thursday against league leaders, Real Madrid. Etebo is primed for a return to action on Monday when Getafe face Alaves away and Atletico Madrid on Thursday at home after his recovery from a knock that ruled him out for five days. Two brothers at war at the San Siro as Victor Moses and Ola Aina face each other when Inter welcome Torino while William Troost Ekong’s Udinese aim for victory in Serie A. Moses has had a renaissance since he joined Inter on loan from Chelsea in January and he will be hoping for the maximum points against Torino and SPAL (away) on Thursday. Aina who has featured prominently for Torino this season (1746 minutes of action) is aware they are not yet safe from the relegation zone and they will be going out all gun-blazing hoping for a positive outcome against Inter and Genoa at home on Thursday next week. William Troost Ekong and Udinese are up against Sampdoria tomorrow at home and Lazio at Stadio Olimpico on Wednesd