There was a mild drama at the weekend as propietor of Victory College, Ilawe-Ekiti, in Ekiti South West Local Council Area of Ekiti State took to his heels to evade arrest for flouting government’s COVID-19 protocol on school closure. The Nation gathered that the Proprietor bolted away by jumping over a fence when he got the wind of government’s plan to arrest him. It was learnt that the school was sealed off and students dispersed by the Special Task Force set up to enforce compliance of COVID-19 directives. The action of the Task Force was part of the moves to ensure compliance with the school closure order by the government. Confirming the incident, the government through the Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, Mr. Foluso Daramola said the school has been shut and his ministry was on the trail of the fleeing proprietor. According to a statement by the Assistant Director (Information) of the Ministry, Kunle Adeniyi, Daramola gave the order after receiving the interim report from officials of the ministry who investigated the activities of the private school. The statement read in parts: ”Ekiti State Government has ordered the immediate sealing off of the premises of Victory College, Ilawe Ekiti, in Ekiti South West Local Government Area of the State, for violating the directives of Government on the closure of schools as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic currently ravaging most parts of the globe. ”According to the Commissioner, the proprietor of the private school, who is now at large, was discovered to be organizing extra moral classes for students and pupils, in total violation of the subsisting government directives on the closure of schools in the state. ”While noting that the security agents were already on the trail of the proprietor, Mr. Daramola disclosed that the proprietor would face the wrath of the law, for violation of COVID-19 protocols in the State, whenever he is apprehended.” It, therefore, urged members of the public to give useful information about residents defying Covid-19 directives, adding that Governor Kayode Fayemi gives ‘first-class priority’ to people’s well-being.