 THE Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA) has upbraided the federal government over what it described as the rather awkward manner in which the management of NSITF was sacked by the latter. Speaking in Lagos, the Director-General of NECA, Dr. Timothy Olawale noted that the Association received with shock of the purported suspension of the top management and Executive Committee of the NSITF on the basis of a prima facie infraction on the Financial Regulation and Procurement Act, apart from other gross misconduct actions. “Our shock was premised on the fact that all known decorum, rule of corporate governance and well-publicised disciplinary procedures approved by the President and released by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, which was put in place to stem the arbitrary removal of Chief Executive Officers of Government Agencies and to ensure stability in the system were totally disregarded.” According to the NECA DG, “the Board of the Fund was duly constituted and inaugurated by the Honourable Minister of Labour and Employment in line with the enabling Act governing the NSITF and activities of the Board. As such, observed acts of misconduct in the Fund ought to have been brought to the knowledge of the Board for necessary actions as it unfolded. The Board to which the Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA) and other statutory Institutions like the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), etc. are members were not aware of any of the claims made by the Minister as a subject before it.” On the way forward, Dr. Olawale expressed that “in the spirit of appropriateness and respect for the rule of law and directive by the President as contained in Government’s Disciplinary Circular as released by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, the Honourable Minister ought to have referred the matter through the Permanent Secretary to the Governing Board (which is still in existence), for necessary action in line with the relevant provisions of the Establishment Act and the Principles guiding Chapters 3 and 16 of the Public Service Rules. The Governing Board would then follow due process, issue relevant officers queries requesting explanations on the specific acts complained about, and then forward its findings and recommendations to the Hon. Minister for further consideration and necessary action. It is then that the Honourable Minister can recommend to the Government (the President through the SGF, as the case may be for necessary action. This time-tested and institutionalised procedure was not respected nor acknowledged.” It may be recalled that President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), had suspended the MD of NSITF, Adebayo Somefun, indefinitely, last Thursday and 11 other officials and ask to proceed on suspension. Their suspension, according to the ministry, was due to the preliminarily established prima facie infractions of the Financial Regulations and Procurement Act, and other acts of gross misconduct. The federal government said it would audit the roles of the suspended officers in financial and procurement breaches, as well as in gross misconduct in the NSITF from 2016 till date. 