 NIRAN Adedokun, journalist, lawyer and public relations specialist, has a new thought-provoking book of essays in bookstores. It is titled ‘The danfo driver in us all’. Reading the titular essay made me retrospect. Days after I finished reading this important book I chose to think about the good in us. The danfo driver metaphor connotes disorderliness and corner-cutting for personal gains. I am taking liberty to use the metaphor to represent the minority giving us bad names but grabbing the headlines. They are the ones who run government agencies like danfo, they are the ones who steal money and they are the ones who use stolen funds to decorate their garages with Rolls Royce, Cadillac, Limousine, Bentley Continental GT, Mercedes-Benz Maybach 62, and a lavish fleet of armoured Range Rovers. They fill their vaults with currencies running into billions, which they will never finish if they live for the next 100 years. They live as though we are not all just strolling by on this unpredictable journey called life. As you read this, many are glued to the new season of Big Brother Naija show, with companies falling over one another to sponsor it. Ask these companies to sponsor a research by Hallowed Olaoluwa, who is seen as Africa’s Albert Einstein, and all you will get are excuses. Olaoluwa earned First Class in Mathematics and Physics at 18 and had two Master’s degrees in Physics and Mathematics at 19. He earned his doctorate degree at 24. We have Professor Charles Egbu to celebrate as one of our recent successes. He has just made history as the first Black to become the Vice Chancellor of a UK University. Egbu’s appointment as VC of Leeds Trinity University, East London, United Kingdom, makes him the first Nigerian and black person to achieve this historic feat. There is also Victor Osagie, a Nigerian Information Technology Consultant, recently honoured by the Cabinet Office of the United Kingdom for his ingenuity for the mass production of ventilators to boost the National Health System (NHS) fight against the Coronavirus pandemic. The office believes Osagie is one of the best Britain has to offer. Osagie’s team delivered the quality control system that rapidly converted disused warehouses into assembly lines.  His team converted Ford Motors vehicle production lines and Airbus Aircraft production lines into ventilator production lines. Osagie and his team produced over 14,000 ventilators in 90 days. This boosted the NHS ventilator capacity from less than 9,000 pre-COVID19 era to the over 25,000 capacity in July 2020. Haters will pretend not to have heard of Ikenna Nweke, a Nigerian, who returned a missing wallet with foreign currency in Japan even when no one was watching him. Nweke, a doctorate student in a Japanese university, turned down the offer of compensation. He projected honesty, integrity and contentment, which the bulk of Nigerians represent. By now, he should have become a brand ambassador to serious firms. Another star we should be celebrating is Lt. Victor Agunbiade, who the United States Navy honoured with the Navy and Marine Corps Development Medal for effectively managing its largest overseas cash disbursement of $45 million (N17.5 billion). Agunbiade, who joined the US Navy in 2008, managed the money and was able to account for every penny. We should also pop the champagne because of the likes of the amazing Odogbolu-born Olurotimi John Badero who has been recognised as the world’s first and only fully trained cardio-nephrologist. There are millions of other Nigerians doing us proud all over the world. According to the Migrations Policy Institute, 29 per cent of Nigerian-Americans over the age of 25 hold a graduate degree, compared to 11 per cent of the overall U.S. population. A report by the American Community Survey shows that among Nigerian-American professionals, 45 per cent work in education services and many are professors at top universities. ImeIme A. Umana, the first Black woman elected president of the Harvard Law Review last year, is Nigerian-American. The good ones are not only abroad. Nollywood may not be what we all want it to be but there is no denying the fact that this industry, built through the resilience of filmmakers, actors and other professionals, has done very well against all odds. With little or no government support, thousands now feed through this industry producing one service or the other. The world has taken note and men and women from this industry are now part of the Academy of Arts, the body behind the Oscars. Netflix, one of the biggest streaming firms in the world, has found Nigeria irresistible. Without the resilience of these Nigerian filmmakers, which created a mountain out of a mound, there would have been nothing to attract the giant. Soon we are going to see Lola Shoneyin’s ‘The Secret Lives of Baba Segi’s Wives’ as a series on Netflix. Wole Soyinka’s ‘Death and the King’s Horseman’ will also become a movie. Both are to be bankrolled by Netflix. All thanks to the men and women whose sweat gave us Nollywood. The music industry is another sector where Nigerians have built a beautiful edifice out of rubbles. After the Fela era, our musicians’ glow ebbed on the international stage, but now home-based Nigerians are playing big at the world stage. Davido and Wizkid are two of our stars who regularly show up on global billboards. They are also getting gold and platinum ratings. In the world of literature, Nigeria is no pushover. We have many stars who have been published globally. Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie and Chigozie Obioma are just two of this enviable clan. Obioma’s two books – ‘The Fishermen’ and ‘An Orchestra of Minorities’- made the Booker Prize shortlist. I do not have to mention the likes of Prof. Wole Soyinka because they are in a class of their own. There are many talents published locally who are also an absolute delight to read. We also have great companies that have shown that we are good. One such is the Nigerian Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) Limited. NLNG is both our pride and cash-cow. Nigeria makes the kind of money from NLNG from only a few other sources. When President Muhammadu Buhari came in, the Federal Government initiated a bailout package for states owing their workers. The bulk of the money which made up the N400 billion package came from the company. It has made over $25 billion from a $2.6 billion investment, paid over $5.5 billion as Companies Income Tax, Tertiary Education Tax, WHT, VAT and PAYE and regulators’ levies and other fees have cost it over N51 billion. Former Coordinating Minister of Finance and Coordinating Minister for the Economy Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala described the company as a beacon of hope for a better Nigeria. She described it as the most successful Nigerian company with 49 per cent government ownership, which she described as a distinguishing feature among companies in the public and private sectors. While celebrating our goodness, we need to get our politics right. What we call politics at the moment is nothing but a joke. The Labour and the Conservative are the two political parties that have decided the fortunes of the United Kingdom from time immemorial. In the United States, the Republican and the Democrats dwarf other parties to swing the American pendulum whichever way they want. It is rare to hear that Conservative member defects to Labour or vice versa. It is also hard to find a Republican or a Democrat defecting. In Nigeria, our democracy, which is patterned after the U.S. and the UK, is a variant of what obtains in both nations. But that is where it all ends. In the main, our party system is unique to us, in an abnormal way. It is difficult to discern the ideology or principle behind our political parties. The only glaring thing is the desperation to grab power. This brings me to a tweet by Kadaria Ahmed, ex-Editor of defunct Next, who now owns Anchor Fm: “Our actions matter as much as, if not more than, our words. We cannot be a great people or respected when our actions show we see ourselves as inferior. Can we stop stealing our people blind and taking the money abroad?” My final take: The bad few should not be allowed to define us. At every given opportunity, we must trumpet the achievements of the men and women who are doing us proud, home and abroad. They are our ambassadors and deserve all the accolades we can give them. And we need to dispatch to hell every danfo driver tendency in us. The good must triumph!