Life is a lesson for every blessed person to learn. People learn lessons from the lives of great people that have taken their leave or from living legends. Today’s lesson is distilled from the life of a living legend, Salako Hamdallah. Her life’s diary is a document that restores life to any dying life. She is a legend that I have known for almost five years. Her life is interesting and compelling, but not without challenges and obstacles. She is a young woman who got married early. The marriage beatifies her life better than before she signed a life contract with her husband. Notwithstanding, like everyone, she faced serious challenges that seemed to delay the journey but by His mighty hand, she subdued the obstacles. She had her first child when we were about to resume to 200-Level. She almost lost hope of succeeding in her academics in 100-Level due to the stress of the pregnancy. Believe me, at this time, Hamdallah’s condition called for empathy. With all these, she roughed the tough journey in both first and second semester to her destination. To my surprise, she succeeded excellently both in her pregnancy and academics. She gave birth to her beautiful daughter, Aasiyah.  Yet successfully combined it with her academics and was named the Better by far scholar of her department – English Education. Surprised? She told me that the day she heard her name as the scholar of her department, she wept. I said that was a joyful weeping. Another unplanned pregnancy occurred during 200-Level break and Alhamdulillah today.. Education is going smoothly – two successful children in a row and she is still maintaining her university scholarship. She said, “Until you wrote this, I am just realising that it is a motivation and evidence that indeed a successful marriage can never debar educational attainment. So far both spouses are on mutual and uniform goals and world view”. To cap it, she said, “Alhamdulillah Robil A’alamin. Indeed, I am extremely indebted to Allah for his exigent mercies and blessings upon my life. Which of the favours of Allah can I deny? Absolutely none! “ Her life is a lesson to learn that, God is miraculous in His doing. Just sincerely rely on him and He will do miracles in your life. To be candid, He crowns one’s efforts to the apex where one expects less. The duo work perfectly well. Marriage affects not education as sound knowledge enhances marital bliss. If she could make her scholarship competitive, you can make yours better by far. Don’t give up. 