The Kano State Government has said about 193 Almajirai have tested positive for Coronavirus, fueling the controversy surrounding the ongoing repatriation exercise. This is coming as Governor Abdullahi Ganduje directed the removal of lockdown. He, however, maintained the 10p.m to 4a.m curfew. Commissioner for Education Sunusi Muhammad Kiru, while briefing reporters yesterday, said so far, 1,500 Almajirai have been evacuated from Kano State to their states. Kano State, he said, received 400. He added that the state has banned the traditional Qur’anic schools, stating that anybody who wants to operate it must have a dormitory for his Almajirai. “A situation where an Alrama (Islamic scholar) would come in with one thousand Almajirai without knowing where to even put them, that system is over; we will not tolerate such,” the commissioner said. Kiru added that the government is recruiting 60 Alramas into the state civil service to give them a sense of belonging. The state Coordinator of COVID-19 Task Force response team, Dr. Tijjani Hussain, said out of about 2,000 samples they collected under the house-to-house testing done in Nassarawa Local Government, only one person tested positive. Hussain noted that this has contradicted the NCDC’s assertion that the local government is among those with the concentration of positives cases. Ganduje, while directing the removal of lockdown, appreciated how the state is recording success in the fight against the pandemic. He acknowledged and lauded the unrelenting efforts of the frontline health workers, reporters and other stakeholders. He said civil servants of the Grade Level 12 and above should resume work from Monday, July 6. “All markets are now opened and so also motor parks. People must observe the protocols of COVID-19 as enunciated by our health professionals,” he said. Reiterating that street-begging is banned, he warned that only one person is allowed on motorcycle. He insisted that tricycle operators must not take more than two passengers. On schools re-opening, the governor said schools will only be opened on the directive of the Federal Government. “But for final year or graduating pupils/students, like primary six pupils and students of Junior Secondary School II (JSS III) and Senior Secondary School III (SSS III), we are making preparation for their returning to schools,” the governor said. 