Former Secretary to Ondo State Government, Ifedayo Abegunde, popularly known as Abena has stated he regretted working with Governor Rotimi Akeredolu. He said he quit on Monday because of the alleged ill-treatment meted out to him. Abegunde, who spoke less than six hours after he tendered his resignation, also alleged it was the Peoples Democratic Party that won the 2016 governorship elections in Ondo but Akeredolu was officially declared winner. Speaking in a radio interview monitored in Akure, Abegunde said it was himself and some power that- be within and outside the state that arm twisted the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to upturn the electoral victory in favour of Akeredolu. Abegunde said he regretted working for Akeredolu in the last three and half years and explained that he resigned because he could no longer be part of a government that makes the people pass through hardship. He said there has been a cold war between him and Akeredolu adding that the ill treatment received from Akeredolu made him to quit the administration. The former SSG said he was unable to cater for the needs of all his followers because the governor didn’t release any money for his office as grant. According to him: “Akeredolu lost the election to the PDP candidate, Eyitayo Jegede, it was through the powers from him (Abena) and other APC pillars that made INEC declare Akeredolu as governor after he had lost it. “Akeredolu didn’t win the election in 2016 but we made it possible for him to become governor. We were the pillars behind him and we will not support him again. He will lose this time around.” Reacting to allegations that he got N5 million monthly as office grant, Abegunde said the Governor was lying.and demanded for evidence. His words: “I was suffering in his administration because he didn’t release any fund for my office grants. He has been telling lies that he was giving me N5m every month even when he knew he didn’t give me such money. “Where on Earth did the governor give me such funds? Recently, I reported him to Governor Fayemi of Ekiti state and he promised to invite both of us to Abuja for settlement. I remember that I told Fayemi that I was going to spit on the face of Akeredolu if he repeated the lie that he was giving me N5m monthly, and I would then return to Akure to resign and as well Inform the public of his looting sprees. “The government of Akeredolu is making the entire people of the state to suffer and I cannot be part of that any longer. Everyone is suffering. He doesn’t pay salaries at the right time. As a matter of fact, Akeredolu has not performed to the expectations of the masses apart from the roads he is building. “Akeredolu has turned former Governor Mimiko to a saint with his own abysmal performance. We now see that Mimiko did well as governor because he gave his people enough funds to enable them cater for the needs of their own supporters. I had worked with three governor’s, and I can say that in the history of Ondo state, Akeredolu is the worst governor.” Abegunde said the people that enjoy the current government are Akeredolu’s close relations.