The 49-member Governor Abdullahi Ganduje-led National Campaign Council of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) for the September 19 Edo State Governorship Election will be inaugurated on Monday. National Chairman of the Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee of the party Governor Mai Mala Buni will conduct the ceremony slated for 12 noon at the National Secretariat of the party in Abuja. The constitution of the council, which has four other Governors, the Deputy Senate President and two former National Chairmen of the party among others as members was approved last Wednesday by the Caretaker Committee Chairman. On the list of committee members released by the Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabeba is Imo Governor Sen. Hope Uzodinma, who suprintendented the party’s governorship primary election in June 22. He is to serve as Deputy Chairman and Hon. Abbas Braimoh as Secretary of the Campaign Council. Other members to be inaugurated are Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege; Gombe Governor Inuwa Yahaya; Kogi Governor Yahaya Bello and Lagos Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu. Also on the membership of the council are two former APC National Chairmen, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun and the immediate past chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. Others are seven former Governors:- Sen. Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko, Sen. Godswill Akpabio, Sen. Orji Uzor Kalu, Sen. Owelle Roachas Okorocha, Chief Timipre Sylva, Chief Emmanuel Eweta Uduaghan and Prof. Oserheimen A. Osunbor. Three former governorship aspirants Dr. Pius Odubu, Engr. Chris Ogiemwonyi and Hon. Osaro Obaze who stepped down for the party’s flag bearer, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu are also on the council. Others Sen. Degi Eremiemyo Biobaraku, Sen. John Owan Enoh, Rt. Hon. E.J. Agbonayiman, former Secretary to Government of the Federation (SGF), Engr. Babachir Lawal, Prince  B.B. Apugo, Gen. Charles Airhiavbere, Hon. Peter Akpatason, Hon. Patrick Alsowleren, Hon. Johnson Oghuma, Hon. Prof. Julius Ihonvbere, Hon. Pally Iriase, Hon. Dennis Idahosa, Mrs. Rachel Akpabio, Mr. Bolaji Afeez, Engr. Gabriel Iduseri and Chief Cairo Ojougboh. Also in the council are Patrick Obahiagbon, Chief Ayiri Emami, Hon. Abubakar Adagu Suberu,  Usman Nahuche, Engr. Chidi Orji,  Dr. Almajiri Giadam, Sen. Sa’idu Umar Kumo, Chief Pius Akinyelure, Chief Solomon Edebiri, Prof. Ebegue Amadasun, Hon. Saturday Uwulekue, Chief Samuel Ogbuku, Miss. Rinsola Abiola and Theresa Tekenel.