The Chairman, Committee on Information and Strategy of the Lagos House of Assembly, Hon. Tunde Braimoh is dead. Braimoh, who represented Kosofe Counstituency 2 at the Lagos State House of Assembly, was an eloquent lawmaker. Although the Lagos Assembly is yet to come out with an official statement on his death and its cause, there were speculations within the Assembly, especially among the lawmakers, of complications arising from COVID-19. Some of the lawmakers, who spoke on condition of anonymity with The Nation, said his death is a rude shock. According to one of the lawmakers, the late Braimoh was a very cautious individual whose loss made him sleepless. He said: “It is true my brother, I could not sleep since 1am when I learnt about his demise. He is one of those who never toyed with his health matters. “Highly cautious and will always maintain strict adherence to all medical counsels from the appropriate quarters as it concerns prevention of this spread of COVID-19 scourge. “He would be sorely missed, he was such a fine breed whose impact will ever remain a reference point.” Announcing the death on Friday morning in a statement, the Mayoress of Ikosi Isheri local council development authority, Princess Samiat Abolanle Bada, said: “Kosofe politics without you is a cold world of ice, freezing me to death like fish stark naked. “Your demise is not just a lonely death but a string that rubs on many as victims. As a bearer of law, you stood as the voice of the voiceless. Many are living testimonies to your life touching impacts. “Your leadership in Kosofe exemplifies the dexterity of your seasoned administrative prowess and uncommon resourcefulness in bringing good governance to the people at the grassroot. “Your hands are always outstretched to the needy and the poor. Constantly your doors are flooded by beneficiaries of your flowing hands of honey. “Every eyes filled with sadness and sorrow were receiving succor with the cheerfulness of your face . “We love you but the Almighty loves you more than we do. Rest in Peace.”
.