The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) has described actions of former Zamfara Governor Abdulaziz Yari as “irresponsible”. Yari was reported to have refused to adhere to safety protocols and procedures put in place at the Malam Aminu Kano International Airport on Saturday. The former Governor was said to have described himself as a “VIP” was reported to have forcefully pushed the officer who was trying to disinfect his luggage.
FAAN, while condemning Yari’s action, said his behavior was capable of endangering other airport users. The reaction to his conduct was contained in a series of tweets posted on Wednesday by FAAN on its official twitter handle, @FAAN_Official. The tweet, which was titled Public announcement reads: “The Management of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) hereby strongly condemns the conduct of the former Governor of Zamfara State, Alh. Abdulaziz Yari who blatantly violated the Public Health procedures (COVID19) on travels at the Malam Aminu Kano International Airport on Saturday 11th July 2020. “He refused to adhere to the protocols and procedures put in place by the Federal Government through the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on #COVID19 by forcefully pushing away an officer of the Environment department when he insisted that his luggage must be disinfected. “The former Governor said the officer should have known he is a VIP. This irresponsible act endangers all other airport users, it is unacceptable and as such it has been duly escalated. “FAAN hereby cautions all airport users, especially our esteemed VIPs, to please respect the presidential directive by observing the public health travel protocols put in place to protect all air travelers against infection and the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic.” The announcement generated so many reactions from some twitter users. Responding to the announcement, @PHEMY37 tweeted: “If an ordinary man committed this same offence, he would have been detained by the Airport police and be paraded the following morning as an armed robber who invaded the airport. Let’s continue to use Bigmanism to destroy our nation. Kontinu” @FacilityMike tweeted: “Most of the developed countries in the world are successful because their law enforcement officers respect their constitution/law like Holy Bible or Holy Koran. If our law enforcement officers apply this, Nigeria will be better. Oga no VIP for COVID19 MATTER!” @namuhammad tweeted: “I don’t know what this public announcement is meant to serve. If he had violated a rule what we want to hear is that he has been sanctioned appropriately. If it was an ordinary citizen that did that will this public announcement also be your response?”