 THE deadliest condition that can afflict a policy-maker and the environment in which he or she operates, it has been said, is ignorance compounded by arrogance. This lethal combo, his misguided and uncharitable adversaries claim, is what has moved, driven  and animated the response of the Executive Governor of Kogi State, Yahaya Bello, to the outbreak of Coronavirus disease in Nigeria and reduced the state’s residents to sitting ducks for its visitation. No sooner had the first case of the pandemic been reported in Nigeria than Bello, without fear  and without testing, proclaimed his domain impregnable to the coronavirus and off-limits to the disease it spawns.  It meant nothing that Kogi shares heavily-trafficked borders with 10 of Nigeria’s 36 states and is also the gateway to the nation’s capital Abuja, and to the North. It gets curiouser still. Innocent of the basic literature on the subject, he views COVID-19 with the abomination the ancients reserved for leprosy. To mention Coronavirus disease and Kogi in the same breath is to him an abomination of scriptural proportions. It is of no consequence, they charge, that COVID-19 is not the death sentence it was once feared to be; that four of every five afflicted persons survive it unimpaired for the most part, and go on to live healthy and productive lives. You thought you had heard the most scandalous of their vituperations, only to realize that they were just warming up.  And so, Bello, they add while you are still shaking your head in disbelief at their contumely, is totally ignorant of that elementary fact and too far gone in his pig-headedness to learn and grow. I don’t pity him. Personally, I believe that Bello brought all this on himself.  For, other than a hand-held device he said he had developed and distributed throughout Kogi to keep the state off-limits to the pandemic, he has not deigned to explain what has made the state a graveyard for the Coronavirus.  Nor did he patent the invention. Until lately, whenever they posted the latest COVID-19 bulletin, Kogi stood alone with a perfect score. Not a single reported case.  But his unforgiving adversaries were not in the least impressed.  They point out that, in virtually every sphere of the nation’s life, the official records are notoriously and incurably unreliable. Bello’s claim would perhaps have been more persuasive if Kogi’s authorities had opened up their books to investigators, showing the names and particulars of persons tested, where, when, and with what results.  Inside sources tell me that these records exist but that Bello would not release them because doing so would do irreparable harm to the bedrock principle of self-effacement that has undergirded his entire adult life. One can then understand his reticence in publishing, if only to silence his adversaries, a catalogue of the testing centres he had built to contain and eviscerate the pandemic, just in case it had the temerity to intrude into Kogi’s pristine environment — the quarantine facilities, the intensive care units he has rigged up, the number of ventilators and hospital beds he has acquired, the quantities of personal equipment protection he has stockpiled But, absent a public showing of mobilization and preparedness on that scale, his adversaries insist, the whole spiel about Kogi’s impermeability to the Coronavirus must be deemed too good to be true. Not so the National Centre for Disease Control and Prevention.  It dispatched a team of experts to the Kogi capital, Lokoja, to check things out, hoping that Kogi would turn out to be an outlier in the pandemic and provide the lead in the global effort to vanquish it. But Bello, ever true to his calling as an accountant, had his suspicions.  He had not toiled so tirelessly to make Kogi and its periphery a Coronavirus-free zone only to allow some interlopers hiding behind the Federal Might to muck up its prized status as an island of pristine wholesomeness in a murky sea roiled by the Coronavirus. What if the team’s true mission was to befoul that pristine wholesomeness by dispersing elements of the virus surreptitiously at every stop?  And what if a goal no less sinister was to inveigle Kogi into joining the ranks of fraudulent claimants in a federation of beggar-states? Bello was ready. In Lokoja, the team’s leader, Dr Andrew Noah, committed a violation of the pandemic’s protocol so egregious that a less accommodating governor would have ordered all its members kept in prison custody for as long as he wished.  Instead, he ordered them to submit to quarantine for a mere 14 days, or head back to their base forthwith.  For their safety, and to ensure that they did not further compromise Kogi’s environmental immunity, he detailed security officials to escort them across the border. Unfazed by this rout, Bello’s — and Kogi’s – relentless adversaries confected a case of the affliction in my hometown Kabba, and publicised it on every conceivable media outlet. Pro-active as always, Bello placed the entire local government area under total lockdown and ordered house-to-house testing. Not a single resident tested positive. You would think that this triumph of world-class leadership would move Bello’s sworn enemies to sheathe their swords and resolve to work with him to keep Kogi free of all ailments known to humankind and those that may yet surface. But they are too small-minded for that. In their latest assault on all that is decent and of good report, they are trumpeting it that two leading Kogi jurists who died recently:  the Chief Judge, Nasir Ajanah, and the President of the Customary Court of Appeal, Ibrahim Atadoga, had been felled by nothing else but – you guessed  right – COVID-19. Their evidence for this preposterous assertion rests on no firmer ground than the statements  allegedly posted by their grieving families who, let us admit it, have never claimed any training in the arcane field of forensic epidemiology. Bello knew the judges personally and had closely monitored their treatment for the ailments that claimed their lives. He can therefore assert with the highest confidence that their deaths were absolutely unrelated to the Coronavirus. He has also revealed that the Coronavirus that has upturned some parts of the world is nothing but a toothless phantom forced on the public for the sinister purpose of creating fear and panic among various communities,  by evil forces bent on curtailing their population and stealing their resources, Kogi being one of the few exceptions. As I see it, the time has come when Nigeria must heed his counsel, abandon its manipulators, domestic and foreign, and humble itself to learn from him the secret formula that has proved so stunningly successful in keeping Bello’s domain safe from COVID-19. I can now reveal that the armed marauders who descended on the Federal Medical Centre in Lokoja the other day, burned it down and carted away whatever they did not smash up, were on a quest to divest Bello of his propriety rights to that priceless formula.  Luckily for us all, they went to the wrong place. They just might stumble on the right place unless Bello hastens to share the secret with the world while he still has it. Time is not on his side. 