  Justice Lateef Lawal-Akapo  of a Lagos High Court sitting at Igbosere has fixed  September 24 for adoption of final written addresses in the trial of the two engineers who built the collapsed six-storey building belonging to the Synagogue Church of All Nations (SCOAN), Ikotun,  Lagos. Justice Lawal-Akapo fixed the date on Friday after taking submissions from counsels. During the last sitting of the court on February 21, Justice Lawal-Akapo, had ordered the defence counsel to  file and adopt their final written addresses within 14 days while the prosecution, on the other hand was file and adopt their written addresses within 21 days. The Judge said “The defence counsel shall file and adopt their written addresses within 14 days from now, the prosecution, shall also file and adopt its final written addresses and the defence is to reply within seven days from now.” Consequently Justice Lawal-Akapo, adjourned the case until April 24, for adoption and final written addresses. However, the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic had prevented the court from sitting since then. The defendants had earlier closed their defence December 20, after the cross examination of their last witness by the prosecution. The last witness, Professor of structural engineering, Patrick Nwankwo, during cross- examination by the Lagos State Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) Yhaqub Oshoala (now a judge of the Lagos State High Court), told the court that the mode of collapse of SCOAN Guest House negated the characteristics of collapsed building with structural defects. “Any defective building whether emanating from under or over reinforcement, poor constructional materials among others will have a ductile type of collapse. “That of Synagogue Guest House was too catastrophic and such could only have been caused by an external factor”. Asked by counsel to fourth defendant, Olalekan Ojo (SAN) what he meant by “the type of collapse”, the professor of structural engineering clarified: “if defective or substandard materials were used, the mode of collapse would be ductile and gradual,” Nwankwo said. The Lagos State Government had sued SCOAN over the building collapse which killed 116 worshipers of the church on September 12, 2014. The defendants in the case are two engineers, messrs Oladele Ogundeji and Akinbela Fatiregun and their companies Hardrock Construction and Engineering Company and Jandy Trust Limited. They are facing trial on 110-count charge of involuntary manslaughter, while the Registered Trustees of SCOAN were charged with building without approval. The Lagos State Directorate of Public Prosecutions (DPP) had accused the defendants of violating Section 75 of the Urban and Regional Planning Law of Lagos State, 2010, as well as Section 222 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2011. They pleaded not guilty. They were arraigned on April 19, 2016.  