 ALL is set for the Ondo State All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship primary scheduled to hold today in Akure, the state capital. Twelve aspirants have been certified for the contest. Unlike in 2016 when 23 aspirants vied for the ticket, the number has been pruned to work towards a rancour-free contest. The struggle for the party’s 2020 ticket has exacerbated the internal crisis within the fold. Aggrieved 2016 aspirants and other party chieftains had forged common front under the aegis of Unity Forum to present a consensus candidate that will slug it out with Governor Rotimi Akeredolu at the primary. But, the arrangement collapsed, due to disagreement over the choice of a consensus candidate. The aspirants jostling for the ticket with Akeredolu are Chief Olusola Oke, Dr. Segun Abraham, Chief Isaac Kekemeke, Ambassador Olusola Iji, Prince Okunjimi Odimayo, Mr Ifeoluwa Oyedele, Mrs Olajumoke Anifowose, Awodeyi Akinsehinwa, Olubukola Adetula, Dr Nathaniel Adojutelegan and Collins Akinola. The aspirants are from Ondo North and Ondo South Senatorial Districts. There is none from Ondo Central, which produced the immediate past governor that spent two terms of eight years.  Akeredolu first contested in 2012, on the ticket of the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN). After picking up the ACN ticket, he faced Dr Olusegun Mimiko of the Labour Party (LP) and Chief Olusola Oke who ran on the platform of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP). However, Akeredolu lost the election to Mimiko. Again, in 2016, he emerged winner of the APC primary with 669 votes. His closest rival was Dr Segun Abraham who scored 635 votes, while Oke came third, with 583 votes. His victory was controversial, as it elicited internal squabble within the party, with National Leader Asiwaju Bola Tinubu demanding the resignation of the then National Chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun over allegations of rigging the primary. Akeredolu eventually won the 2016 election with 244,842 votes. His opponents, Eyitayo Jegede of the PDP polled 150,380 votes and Oke of Alliance for Democracy (AD) scored 126,889 votes. The unresolved internal crisis within the APC is Akeredolu’s hurdle in clinching the party’s ticket this time around. Akeredolu has boasted that he would win both the primary and governorship election without the support of members of the Unity Forum. He believes his performance and the support of the people of Ondo would earn him victory at the poll.  Oke was a prominent APC governorship aspirant in 2016. He came third in the primary but later dumped the party and joined the AD, which offered him an automatic ticket. Shortly after the 2016 poll, he returned to the APC. He said Tinubu was instrumental to his return. Soon after his return, he joined the Unity Forum. In May 2020, the group announced him as its consensus candidate to face Akeredolu at the primary, but the development did not go down well with other members. As a result, they defied the leadership instruction by collecting nomination forms and appeared before the screening committee for the governorship primary. Oke was a former PDP National Legal Adviser. He was also a member of House of Representatives in the aborted Third Republic. Oke was a member of the National Political Reform Conference; Chairman of Ondo State Oil Producing Area Development Commission (OSOPADEC), a position he held until he voluntarily resigned in October 2006 to run for the PDP ticket for Ondo South Senatorial District. At the primary election, he was returned as the candidate having secured not less than 75 per cent of votes cast in a race involving three other aspirants.  He also won the senatorial election. However, his victory was aborted by intra-party mischief which was endorsed by the Supreme Court.  Dr Segun Abraham has remained a progressive politician since 1999 when he ventured into politics. He was a pioneer member of AD, which later metamorphosed into ACN. Since 2012, he had been nursing the ambition to occupy the governorship seat. He sought for the ACN ticket in 2012 but was beaten by Rotimi Akredolu. Again, in 2016, he lost the APC ticket to Akeredolu who polled 669 votes; against Abraham’s 635. Abraham was one of those who campaigned for the late former Governor Adebayo Adefarati in the election that brought him to power in 1999. He was appointed Chairman of Owena Hotels by the Adefarati administration. He was born and raised in Ikare-Akoko, Ondo State where he had his early education. He holds a master’s degree in Technology management.  Kekemeke hails from the Ondo South. He was the pioneer Chairman of Ondo APC, former Secretary to the State Government, former Commissioner and former Minority Leader in the Ondo State House of Assembly. Kekemeke believes he would win the primary because “as the pioneer chairman, the people know me and I know the people”. He has ruled out stepping down for another aspirant.  He is a politician of the progressive bent and currently serving as Nigeria’s Ambassador to the Republic of Togo. He belongs to the Unity Forum. Iji hails from Ese-Odo Local Government in Ondo South Senatorial District. He has enviable political pedigree, having served in various offices since the days of Social Democratic Party (SDP) and at different times he was the state chairman of AD, Action Congress (AC), which later became the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN). Iji said he joined the race to reposition the party and transform the state. The aspirant promised that he would work assiduously with all to resolve the crises in the party. He said: “While some have said that they are no longer interested in reconciling the differences within our deeply divided party and others are beating the drums of discord, I’m ready to resolve our differences. These are qualities which I am bringing into this contest which others may not have. I am the right person for the job.”  Prince Odimayo hails from Ode-Irele, Irele Local Government in Ondo South Senatorial District. He is believed to be a grassroots politician; he has distinguished himself in philanthropic activities by offering scholarships for education, health assistance to the sick, empowered the youth and the aged including the widows. Odimayo has promised to implement a five-point agenda if given a chance to govern the state. He listed the agenda to include: free and qualitative education, quality healthcare services, infrastructural development, mechanised agriculture and industrialisation. He promised to facilitate the use of the state’s resources for free and compulsory education in primary and secondary levels like the days of late progressive leaders like the late Obafemi Awolowo and the late Adekunle Ajasin. A prominent member of the Unity Forum, Senator Ajayi Boroffice, has endorsed him for the primary. Boroffice said he has consulted some elders, youths, and women across the 18 local government areas and that they have equally endorsed Odimayo’s bid because he represents their aspirations, collective interests and hope for a more prosperous Ondo State.  He’s an experienced politician of the progressive fold. He has contested the APC governorship primary twice, but was persuaded to step down in the interest of the party. In 2012, he stepped down for Akeredolu, and a week to the 2016 primary, he was asked to step down for Segun Abraham. Akinsehinwa is one of the members of the Unity Forum that resisted what they called the imposition of Oke as the group’s consensus candidate. He said: “By convention, Ondo North is expected to complete its eight years, which is the two-term tenure for the governorship. That’s why we insisted that the ticket should remain in the north. The aspirants voted seven against three in favour of Ondo North.” Akinsehinwa hails from Ondo North Senatorial District like Akeredolu. Based on performance, he believes the governor has no justification asking for a second term. He said: “I’m not the one that wants to remove him but the people of Ondo who are tired of him and want to remove him so that a better candidate would take his place. Akeredolu knows that I am the only one that has what it takes to remove him. I have the sagacity, capacity and the ability to remove him.”  Adetula is an aspirant from Owo, the country home of Governor Akeredolu. He participated in 2016 primary. He comes from the family of progressive politics. His father, the late Chief Zacheus Adetula was one of the foremost political leaders of the progressive family in Ondo State. The elder Adetula was a contemporary of the late Ajasin and the late Awolowo. The old man represented Owo Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives between 1979 and 1983. Adetula is a successful businessman who sits on the boards of many international and domestic companies.  Mrs Anifowose is the only female aspirant. She is the daughter of the leader of the late Ajasin and hails from Owo like Governor Akeredolu. She also participated in the 2016 primary, she got only one vote. Prior to the merger that gave birth to the APC, Anifowose was the Chairman of the defunct ACN in the state. 