The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has called on the Federal Government to arraign suspended acting chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) Ibrahim Magu to clear his name over weighty allegations against him. The opposition party said anything short of this would indicate compromise in the ongoing investigation against the anti-graft chief. It also expressed worries over media reports by Magu’s counsel, Wahab Shittu, that he would not only be cleared but also reinstated. The PDP, in a statement on Friday by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, described Shittu’s statement as a huge affront on the integrity of the Justice Ayo Salami- led Presidential Investigative Panel probing various allegations of corruption against Magu and the EFCC. The party said Nigerians were shocked by Shittu’s statement that he had Magu’s instruction to inform the public that he (Magu) will be reinstated back to office. The statement reads: “Nigerians are unease that such assertive statement by Magu’s lawyer holds more than meet the eyes and portrays the Presidential Panel as well as the Buhari Presidency as having compromised the probe. “Our party hopes that this is not a case of corruption fighting back in a frantic effort to shield accused persons from prosecution. “The PDP wonders if Magu’s counsel is now informing Nigerians that the activities of the Presidential Panel, as well as the indicting memo by the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, are all drama to facilitate Magu’s clearance at the Senate”. The main opposition party added: “The statement by Magu, through his counsel, is therefore a direct slap on the integrity of our justice system and the fight against corruption in Nigeria. “What Nigerians and indeed the global community expect is for the Federal Government led by President Muhammadu Buhari, the African Union (AU) Anti-Corruption Champion, to take immediate steps to arraign the suspended EFCC Chairman before a court of competent jurisdiction to defend and clear his name over the very weighty allegations that have been brought against him. Anything short of this will only signpost a huge compromise in the matter.”