 Students of Anambra descent in the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife, under the aegis of the Association of Anambra State Students in Nigeria and Diaspora, in collaboration with the National Association of Anambra Law Students, UNEC Chapter, are calling for entries for an essay competition in memory of one of their members, Wendy Ebenezer Linda. Its President, Chukwuka Igwe, said the competition was to immortalise Linda, an active member of the association. “Wendy Linda was, until her death in a fatal accident around Mayfair, Ile-Ife last year, an active member of our association, AASSNID. We want to use this competition to remember her for her good deeds. Interestingly, we have decided to make this an annual event,” he said. Igwe said the competition was in line with the mission and vision of the association which seeks to enhance the intellectual and academic prowess of her members. He also said the competition was not limited to members of the association, but that other students could apply. “The competition is of two categories: a topic for AASS        NID members and another for non-members. For our members, their topic is ‘Grassroots Politics and the Ignorance of the People to Government: Are the People of Anambra Politically Conscious?” while for other Nigerian students is “The Impact of Socio-Cultural Value on Igbo Society”. We are already receiving submissions. The deadline has been extended to July 23rd, 2020.” According to him, the top three are entitled to a free course to foster their personal skills under the aegis of Learnaholics Academy, Africa. Among other sponsors are Youth Assembly of Nigeria (Anambra State), Speaker of the Youth Assembly of Nigeria (Anambra State), Rt. Hon. Amb. Dr. I.C.C Nwobi JP, Engr. Jonathan Udemba, the CEO, Onochie Global Resources. Top three from each category would receive cash prizes and award of merit. He appreciates Ezeilo Chidubem and Victoria Mbanasor for working tirelessly towards competition, calling on other AASSNID to emulate such service. “Entrants are to note that their essay must not exceed 1000 words, 12 font size, Times New Roman, and should be submitted to thememorialessay.gmail.com,” he said. In his response, the President, National Association of Anambra Law Students, UNEC Chapter, Rotr Godwin Ibeabuchi, through text message, added “the winners will be announced on the AASSNID Instagram account @aassnid_oau”.