The Vice-Chancellor, Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife, Prof. Eyitope Ogunbodede, has praised the alumni for their love for, and willingness to give back to, their alma mater. He gave the commendation when the Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of Platform Capital, Dr. Akintoye Akindele, a Chemical Engineering graduate of OAU, hosted him. Akindele intimated the VC of his intention to assist the university in the areas of renovation and placement of engineering students on internship in Nigeria and outside the country during the visit. In a statement by the Public Relations Officer of the university, Abiodun Olarewaju, Ogunbodede praised Akindele and called on other alumni to leave enduring legacies in the university by undertaking projects. Ogunbodede added that the university would like to partner with Platform Capital on its Centre of Excellence programme in Software Engineering to speed up the project. He also said he embraced the shoe-making projects and other entrepreneurial skills that could make students stand on their feet without undue reliance on government or white-collar jobs. He said:  “We shall select and encourage our students who have the brilliance and practicality, and re-engineer their thinking to reflect the realities of time.  We need people like you in the Platform Capital who are in the field to come over and lecture so that they can bring their practical experience and knowledge to bear on the students who, in turn, would be able to differentiate between class theory and field practical.” On his part, Akindele said: “Great Ife” made an indelible impact on his life. After consultation with his wife (also an alumna) and business partners (many of whom are Great Ife), they decided to renovate and provide a new set of furniture for Lecture Theatre A, B and C of Chemical Engineering Department, among others. Akindele showed the VC how the lecture rooms would look like after being fitted with, at least, two Omni Chargers on each of the tables, and other state-of-the-arts facilities in about six months. He also pledged to provide OAU with solar energy which can cover a hectare of land. Stressing their commitment to supporting universities, their faculties and students through various initiatives, Akindele said Platform Capital was ready to accommodate about 500 engineering students as interns in Duport, Edo State; while five Computer Sciences and engineering students will intern physically and remotely with Asperity within or outside Nigeria. He also promised to send one robot to OAU within days of the VC’s visit.