The Ogun State Chairman of the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), Bamgbose Tomiwa, has said the group forced the Nigerian Police to charge the embattled Federal Polytechnic, Ilaro Student Union (SU) President, Adegboye Olatunji to court when signs of conspiracy were observed  between the police and the Rector of Federal Polytechnic, Ilaro, Dr. Olanrewaju  Aluko He said NANS noticed the conspiracy to detain Olatunji for crimes he knew nothing about. Tomiwa told CampusLife that NANS was proactive in ensuring that Olatunji got reinstated as a student of Federal Poly. “In order for us to ensure we got him released, we stood in for him when he was about to be released. Even before we were able to perfect the bail, he was taken to the prison and we didn’t relent. “NANS threatened the Nigeria Police to take him to court because we believe that there was a conspiracy between the police and the rector to keep our comrade in detention. Even when the bail was granted, we didn’t relax; all efforts and all hands were on deck in order to ensure his reinstatement.” Olatunji was arrested on February 9, 2020 for alleged involvement in cultism and was suspended by the  poly’s management and impeached as the SU leader. He was, however, released on the February 18, after perfecting the bail conditions given to him by an Ogun State Magistrates’ Court in Ifo. The management of the polytechnic, however, lifted his suspension on July 4. His reinstatement would be determined by the outcome of the case – though Tomiwa is optimistic he would get back to office. “I believe we’ll win the case and our man will be discharged  and acquitted of all charges, and then his status as the students union president will be restored” he said. Post-COVID-19, Tomiwa said, NANS would be preaching the gospel of entrepreneurship. He added: “The pandemic has exposed our leadership to a lot of situation and we believe that this pandemic has also exposed the weakness of our political and economic system in the country.  So, immediately this coronavirus is over, we’ll be engaging Nigerian students with entrepreneurship “We will be bringing in programmes students can benefit from and learn different entrepreneurship skills. We will also give them relevant knowledge on areas where they can empower themselves and not only focusing on their school certificates.”