A member of House of Representatives,   Balarabe Shehu Kakale has faulted the repatriation of Almajirai to their states of origin by some state governors in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, describing it as unconstitutional. Speaking at a press brefing, Kakale who represents Bodinga/Dange Shuni/ Tureta Federal Constituency, told reporters  that it was a violation of their rights and freedom of movements and association with other Nigerians to forcefully repatriate them. “It is out of place even in the midst of the novel COVID -19 pandemic”, he said. Kalale said he and some lawmakers were championing education reforms through the amendment of the law establishing State Universal Basic Education Boards (SUBEB) to recognise the Almajiri ‘ new classical ‘ system of education as well other forms of schools, including Christian schools. While advocating the reformation of the conventional Almajiri ‘Makarantan Allo’ to a new ‘classical system’, he  said there was the need to adequately look into the Almajiri system and other forms of education for sustainable reform that would domesticate and recognise them. He said the Almajiri system should be adequately recognised as a skillsficate system including those of the christian schools and other forms of education for the advancement of the country. “We want the Almajiri system to be protected, maintained and supported. They are a different classification from the socio-economic Almajiri who go round begging without going to school. “There are also forced beggars too as a result of child labour as well  asthose encouraged by irresponsible parents”, he said. Having benefited from the Almajiri system himself, the member of the House committee on Education, Health and others, recommended for its mainstreaming. “The classical system should be mainstreamed and graduates recognised and given the space to excel towards contributing to national development. “I want the world to know that I was a graduate of the Almajiri system and you can see my skillsficate on display. “With this, a graduate can be a professional calligrapher, Technical designer, wood work expert, leather works designer and many other skills trade”, he said. He presented a number of young graduates and students of the classical system of Almajiri education” otherwise, ‘ New Makarantan Allo’ who show cased some of their skillful works including young Usman and Abubakar, displaying among others the iconic gate of the Sultan’s palace, homemade water pump to mention a few. “If such schools and graduates will be supported, they will add value to the economy”, he stressed. He praised Sokoto State government for mooting the idea of working a blue print to reform the Almajiri system to the Indonesian Pondok system of education. “I am championing the course along other representatives to repeal the SUBEB law so that it would recognise an all-inclusive participation that will consider all categories of school system. “We must be able to mainstream this category of students (Almajiri and Christian brothers’ schools) of over 10 million in the course of strengthening and advancing the reform for the nation to develop”, he said.