A mild drama ensued in Port Harcourt, Rivers when Governor Nyesom Wike stormed the residence of a former acting Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) Joy Nunieh and rescue her from alleged police harassment. Armed policemen besieged the residence of Nunieh on a day she was billed to testify before an ad-hoc committee of the House of Representatives investigating alleged malfeasance in the NDDC. Nunieh has been engaged in allegations and counter allegations with Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio, over alleged corruption and mismanagement of resources that accrued to the commission. The armed policemen, who reportedly came in their dozens as early as 4am on Thursday, were said to have surrounded the house and attempted to gain entrance into the main building. A source, who spoke in confidence, said the policemen banged the gate repeatedly and later forced it open but could not enter the house where Nunieh took refuge. Wike, who had earlier warned against harm coming the way of Nunieh, was said to have rushed to the residence to rescue her. Wike arrived the house, bulldozed his way into the building and zoomed off with the embattled ex-NDDC managing director. Sources said the Governor took Nunieh into protective custody and relocated her to the Government House in Port Harourt. A video clip of the incident showed security details of Wike escorting the woman into the Governor’s personal car and the woman telling someone over the telephone the Governor had come for her. The armed policemen, who took strategic positions in the compound, were also seen helplessly watching the incident. Rivers Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Nnamdi Omoni, promised to get back with details but later failed to do so.
Nunieh said over 15 policemen surrounded the house and questioned their motive since she said they had no warrant to arrest her. The woman, however, contended that the move was to stop her from appearing before the committee, adding that she was determined to defend herself any other day. The ex-MD said she was not scared of her life noting, nobody had the capacity to take the life they did not give to her. She disclosed Wike was under pressure to recant a statement he made concerning her security but insisted the Governor insisted it was the position of the Government. She said: “I decided to come out and defend myself because Akpabio went to the National Assembly and tried to put some of the money on me. The people at the gate are all armed. They are policemen. They didn’t provide any warrant of arrest. They banged at my gate but nobody opened the gate.
“They pushed the gate but I don’t know how it opened up. They are not inside the house. This is our country. I am not afraid. I will stand up for it and I will still go before the National Assembly no matter how long it takes. Stopping me today doesn’t mean anything. It is a sacrifice I have to pay so that this country will be better. “I have been in this struggle for long. I don’t fear for my life because I don’t think anybody can take my life. It is not possible. I have reached out to the Chairman of the panel to tell him what’s going on that I might not be able to make it. I don’t think that they will have the audacity to break into my house. I am not an armed robber.