 THE Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Campaign Council for Edo State Governorship Election, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje,  has said the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is only interested in Edo State treasury, hence the support for Godwin Obaseki. Ganduje, the governor of Kano State, said Edo people are conscious of the political antics of the PDP and hoped it would meet its Waterloo at the polls. Speaking on Monday in Abuja with reporters after the inauguration of the 49-member National Campaign Council of the party, Ganduje pitied Governor Obaseki, whom he said knows next to nothing about the PDP. He said the opposition party was after Edo treasury and nothing more. Ganduje said: “The PDP decided to accommodate our former governor in Edo State not because they have anything in common, not because they share the same feelings, but simply because he is managing the treasury of Edo State and they want him to use that treasury in order to win the election.” He told Obaseki: “The people of Edo State are watching, they know that somebody who was assisted in 2016 to win an election, somebody who was given every cooperation to succeed in governance of Edo State without doing much for the people, at the end of it, he has taken the treasury and now handed it over to PDP in order to win the election. “Edo State will not accept this treachery. The people of Edo State on September 19 will come out en masse and vote for APC.” The campaign council chairman vowed to humiliate the rigging machine of the PDP by ensuring victory for the APC. “We know the opposition is planning to rig the election, we know there are tactics, we know there are methodologies and we shall dismantle their tactics to ensure we win this election,” he said. Ganduje, who described the Edo Governorship Election as a war, said with the calibre of “young and war veteran” in his campaign council, APC was ready to confront PDP head long. He said: “With the composition of this committee, we have war veterans in politics, and we have young people who are just coming out from election and are ready to go back into the processes of election again. And we have all the horses who never miss their targets.” Ganduje promised to checkmate the Governor Nyesome Wike-led campaign council of the PDP. “We know PDP made Wike their chairman. I assure you, we will isolate Wike in an isolation centre and before he recovers, the election is over.” The National Chairman of the Caretaker Committee of the party, Governor Mai Mala Buni, said APC had confidence in the ability of the council members to achieve the goals. He urged them to remain focused and committed to succeed.       