The Vice-Chancellor of the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, Prof Charles Igwe, has begun the construction of students’ hostel with a capacity of over 12,000 bed spaces to mark his first anniversary in office. He also inaugurated a multi-million naira complex to house archaeological artefacts of the Department of Archaeology and Tourism. Igwe said that the hostel project, constructed under Public Private Partnership (PPP) arrangement, was in line with his promise to prioritise student welfare. “The hostel project fits into my strategy of involving private sector to upgrade infrastructure in the university”, the Vice-Chancellor said. Prof. Igwe said that the first phase of the project had already started and it would involve the construction of six hostel blocks which are expected to be ready by first quarter of 2021. He said that the project was coming at a time the university management was planning how to manage students’ accommodation against the backdrop of COVID-19 pandemic. While thanking the management of Viagem Property and Investment Ltd for undertaking the hostel project, Igwe said he was open to collaborate with other investors who would be interested in doing business with the university. The Managing Director of Viagem Investment Property Ltd, Evangelist Chijioke Okonkwo, explained that ongoing first phase of the hostels would house 6,800 bed spaces and it would be ready under 18 months. “The target is achievable despite COVID-19 delay. We will deliver and deliver strongly”, Okonkwo who was represented by his Technical Officer, Engineer Emmanuel Ogbuu  said. The Dean, Student Affairs, Prof Edwin Omeje, thanked the VC for his interest in student welfare, stating that the last time a new block was laid for students’ hostel in the university was 42 years ago. Meanwhile, the Head, Department of Archaeology and Tourism, Prof. Anselm  Ibeanu while receiving the commissioned   Archaeology Museum, thanked the Vice-Chancellor for ensuring the completion of the building which had stagnated since 2005.   He said that the project would announce tourism in the University of Nigeria.