TYRESE Haspil, the 21 year old personal assistant, charged  with the murder of the Gokada founder/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Fahim Saleh  was seen on surveillance video buying an electric saw, prosecutors said yesterday. An electric saw and cleaning supplies were left near Saleh’s dismembered body in his luxury Manhattan, New York apartment on Tuesday. Haspil  was arraigned on a charge of second-degree murder in the death of Fahim Saleh, whose beheaded and armless body was found Tuesday by a cousin. Haspil pleaded not guilty and was ordered held without bail. Video surveillance from a hardware store that morning shows a man identified as Haspil purchasing the saw and cleaning supplies found at the seventh-floor apartment on the Lower East Side, according to court documents. Investigators also have recovered security video showing Saleh exiting an elevator that leads directly into the full-floor, two-bedroom apartment, closely followed by a masked person dressed entirely in black, according to a law enforcement official who was briefed on the case but wasn’t authorized to discuss the investigation and spoke on the condition of anonymity. Court papers say Saleh fell to the floor after being shocked by a stun gun. Haspil’s attorneys said he has had no prior contact with the criminal justice system and that there “is much more to this narrative” than the accusations and his arrest. “We are in the very earliest stages of ferreting out the truth. The life of this case promises to be long and complex. As the attorneys for Mr. Haspil, we urge the public to keep an open mind,” read a prepared statement from Legal Aid Society attorneys Sam Roberts and Neville Mitchell. An email seeking comment was sent to Haspil’s lawyer. Officers responding to the cousin´s 911 call discovered Saleh´s clothed torso, bags containing a head and arms and an electric saw in the living room of his apartment on the Lower East Side, police said. Saleh was stabbed five times in the neck and torso and had wounds on his arm and left hand. He was dismembered just below the knees, at both shoulders and the neck, according to court papers. Haspil handled finances and personal matters for Saleh, whose ventures included a ride-hailing service in Nigeria, Gokada. Saleh´s LinkedIn biography described him as a self-taught businessman who founded Gokada, building on his experience of first “seeing an opportunity in his parent´s native country of Bangladesh” and starting that country´s largest ride-sharing company. It said he also invested in a similar venture in Colombia. 