The Federal Character Commission (FCC) has said it would soon commence the audit of nominal rolls of federal ministries, departments and agencies to ensure they are complying with federal character principles. The Executive Chairman of the FCC, Dr Muheeba Dankaka, who disclosed this on Wednesday during the maiden media briefing of the Commission at its headquarters in Abuja, also said the FCC would not hesitate to impose necessary sanctions on any staff or agency found to be defaulting. She further noted that the FCC had discovered that the second mandate of the commission which dwells on equitable distribution of infrastural facilities and socio-economic amenities has been seemingly neglected. She, however, charged ministries, departments and agencies of the federal government to ensure that all their activities fully comply with the prescribed principles of Federal Character, without sacrificing merit in the process. “The Commission shall not hesitate to impose discipline measures on any erring staff/agency. It shall not be business as usual. We all must strive
to live above board. “All government ministries, departments and agencies must ensure adherence to the principle of Federal Character.
To this extent, the Commission shall soon embark on audit of the nominal rolls of all government Ministries, Department and Agencies (MDAs) with a
view to enforcing the principle of Federal Character without sacriﬁcing
merit. “We shall ensure that all implementing Ministries, Departments and Agencies adhere to the principles of fairness and equitable distribution of social amenities.” She said that public concerns have been expressed and that members of the commission have been confronted before their assumption of office with seemingly unethical practices. According to her, “It is of great concern that our laid down procedures and operational standards have been compromised. “To enhance the power of prosecution for erring agency, the Commission shall review the laws and seek for amendments from the National Assembly where necessary”, she said.