The stake in the September governorship race in Edo State went up a notch yesterday after the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) named Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State to lead the campaign of Governor Godwin Obaseki. The move came amidst a war of words between the PDP and APC over the Thursday appointment of Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State as head of a 49-man team to campaign for Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu. Also in the APC team are Governors Hope Uzodinma (Imo) and Yahaya Bello (Kogi) as well as the immediate past national chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and his predecessor, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun. The PDP had blasted the APC over the inclusion of the three governors in particular, saying their deployment for the assignment was meant to derail the September 19 governorship election. The APC on its part dismissed the PDP allegation as diversionary, baseless and theatrical. About three hours after the PDP statement was issued, the party announced Wike as head of the Obaseki campaign team in what observers described as tit for tat last night. Wike is to be assisted by Governor Ahmadu Fintiri of Adamawa State. Spokesman for the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, said the three governors were selected by the APC to force what he called a combined formula of Kano and Kogi electoral violence as well as Imo State mandate robbery to subvert the will of the people of Edo state in the election. “It is also disgusting that a governor who deployed a police helicopter to scare voters on election day has been mandated to deploy thugs and dangerous weapons through the northern borderlines of Edo State ahead of the election,” Ologbondiyan said, adding that the alleged plot also entailed the importation of mercenaries as observers in an attempt to “scare the people of Edo State, suppress them and steal their mandate. “It is however not surprising that such is the drift of the APC campaign, given that it has neither messages nor plans for the people of Edo State, especially with a candidate like Osagie Ize-Iyamu.” He said: “The people of Edo State have never been intimidated, suppressed, subjugated or overpowered by external political influences. “The APC should also note that the people of Edo State will spare nothing within the law in firmly resisting any attempt by anybody to import violence or try to manipulate the Edo election in any way. “With the people of Edo State on the side of Governor Obaseki and the PDP, the coast is already clear and any attempt by anybody to subvert the will of the people will surely be met with very stiff resistance.” Soon after the statement, Ologbondiyan issued another one on the appointment of Wike as chairman of the Edo State Governorship Election National Campaign Council. His counterpart in Adamawa State, Ahmadu Fintiri, was appointed his deputy. Also yesterday, the party refused to clear two of the nine aspirants screened for the its primary election for the Ondo State governorship election. The chairman of the five-man screening committee, Mr Yakubu Dogara, did not name the disqualified aspirants. The nine aspirants screened were the Ondo State Deputy Governor, Agboola Ajayi, Mr Eyitayo Jegede, Sen. Boluwaji Kunlere, Dr. Eddy Olafeso, Ben Banji Okunomo, Bode Ayorinde, Otunba Bamidele Akingboye, Mr. Godday Erewa and Sola Ebiseni. Briefing journalists at the party’s Abuja secretariat shortly after the exercise that lasted for two days, Dogara confirmed that two of the aspirants failed the test He however clarified that the committee did not have the powers to disqualify any aspirant, saying that they could take their cases to the Screening Appeal Committee. Speaking on the fate of the two aspirants, Dogara said: ”Well, unfortunately, you know, I wish the world was just the North. If you are in the world, you are faced with the situation where you have the North, you have the South, you have the East and you have the West. “So in most cases, it cannot be a straightforward case. Unfortunately, in this case, I am not happy to report this to you, that about two of the aspirants failed the test. “There are more tests that will apply, but that is not to say that they have been disqualified, because we don’t have the powers to disqualify anybody. “There is still the opportunity of redress at the Appeal Panel which will sit on Monday. So if any of the two candidates that did not pass screening feels that maybe some kind of miscarriage of justice was done, like we have the opportunity to appeal in the courts, he is entitled to launch that appeal from now onwards.” “So as he picks the outcome of what we have done and by Monday, they have appellate body to look at it. “And if they feel that they are satisfied and that he should be cleared, he can then be cleared. ‘Edo proudly APC’ The APC was swift in dismissing the PDP allegations. The Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the ruling party, Mr. Yekini Nabena, said the PDP was already intimidated by the caliber of the APC Campaign Council. Nabena said: “We understand the PDP is intimidated by the quality, depth and political sagacity of the APC National Campaign Council deployed by the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee to organise a formidable campaign structure to ensure success of the APC and our candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu during the election. “The APC has no interest in rolling in the mud with the PDP and engaging them in their senseless and drunken tirade. “Edo State is not dubbed the Heartbeat of the Nation for nothing. The Edo electorate is sensible, sophisticated and progressive. “The focus of the APC is to display to the Edo electorate our pro-people credentials, infrastructure/development track record, social investments, wealth creation initiatives among others, which is being replicated across APC states. “APC is a party that fiercely advocates, practices and defends the principle of ‘One person, one vote.’ “Come September 19, every valid vote must count.” It asked the PDP to concentrate on its deadbeat and empty campaign instead of the comic it has turned itself to as “Edo is proudly an APC state.”