 Professionals in the insurance industry have acquired cutting-edge skills that match global standards and enable them to compete with their counterparts in other sectors in the past two years. Besides, there has been a boost of capacity of members of the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria (CIIN). Similarly, the relationship between the Institute and the Chartered Insurance Institute (CII), United Kingdom has been strengthened and among some of the fruits of the relationship were revision of syllabus and the domestication of CII textbooks, launched in June. The outgoing President of CIIN, Mr. Eddie Efekoha, made this known in his valedictory speech in Lagos.  His tenure ends on Wednesday. He recalled that the theme of his  administration was: “Advancing insurance education and professionalism”. He further stated that the institute’s  College of Insurance and Financial Management (CIFM) has become the focal point for human capital development for the industry. He said: “This is evidenced by the partnership between the College and the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) which resulted in the first-ever Insurance Directors Conference and recently in the Actuarial Development Programme. ‘’There has also been tremendous infrastructural development at the college. The college campus now has a standard tennis court, well-furnished accommodation both for students, staff and visitors. We also recently commenced the construction of a world-class auditorium, a N300 million project kicked off with a ceremony in November 2019 for which an initial seed fund of N100 million was immediately provided. “Also worthy of note during my tenure was the active advocacy for the adoption and implementation of compulsory insurance at various levels of government and which took institute to various states within the country. The CIIN made remarkable progress by building on the work of my predecessors. ‘’In this regard, we donated two sets of CIIN course books to seven institutions of higher learning, which include University of Lagos, University of Uyo, Enugu State University of Technology, Ekiti State University, Niger Delta University, Ken Saro-Wiwa Polytechnic and College of Insurance and Financial Management. “In total, 462 course-books were presented to these institutions. In the same vein, the CIIN Insurance Textbook for Senior Secondary School students was also donated to secondary schools in Delta State in line with the institute’s initiative geared towards promoting insurance as a career choice for secondary school leavers.’’ 