  ‘Thus saith the Lord…’ has become a reoccurring fabric in our lives, globally but at a more rampant rate in this geographical expression called Nigeria. There are several worship centres (not just churches) in Nigeria, each having one or several leaders prophesying as often as daily in some of them what God had seemingly sent through them. My focus in this write up are actually Christian worship centres. For a proper understanding, let us start by defining the terms ‘Prophecy’ and ‘The Word of God.’ A prophecy is a message that is claimed by a prophet to have been divinely communicated to them by a deity. Such messages typically involve inspiration, interpretation, or revelation of divine will concerning the prophet’s social world and events to come. (Wikipedia) A foretelling; prediction; a declaration of something to come. As God only knows future events with certainty, no being but God or some person informed by him, can utter a real prophecy. The prophecies recorded in the Scripture, when fulfilled, afford most convincing evidence of the divine original of the Scriptures, as those who uttered the prophecies could not have foreknown the events predicted without supernatural instruction. (Bible Study Tools). In its simplest form, one may define prophecy as God speaking to people. Inferring that for such a prophecy to be valid, it must be a message from God! The gift of prophecy is one of the nine gifts of the Holy Spirit found in Paul’s writings in 1 Corinthians 12. Apostle Peter also explained the operation of this gift: ‘For prophecy never had its origin in the will of man, but men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit.’ 2 Peter 1:21 (Prophets and Prophecy In Todays Church by Jim and Carolyn Murphy). The Bible is the word of God. The word of God could also be expressed as a manifestation (clear appearance) of the mind and will of God. The Bible says in 2 Timothy 3:16 that ‘All scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness.’ Hebrews 4:12 also says that, ‘For the word of God is quick and powerful, and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart.’ So going through these definitions and a lot other I couldn’t put here for lack of space, the following truths are established. The Bible had been inspired by God to teach us how to live to please Him and direct our day to day living, including the future. For example, do you know that the boom in the media, telecommunications and global travel had been prophesied by Daniel? (Kindly find time to read the book of Daniel). Prophecies are messages for the people, given by God through people, including the prophets. In essence, they are prompted by God who has a message for someone or a people, not driven largely by a person as we observe in most cases today. I just did an exercise and checked on Google, ‘predictions declared in Nigeria since 2010’ and a lot of those predictions were brought up. I went through them and I can tell you a lot of those so called ‘messages from God’, even though time bound had not come to past. The Bible makes it clear that God’s name is precious to Him, but even at that, He honours His word over and above that precious name. That means, God will not say something that will not come to pass. Psalm 138:2 says ‘..for thou has magnified thy word above all thy name.’ So the question is, why are bulk of these prophecies not coming through? Does it mean that all the said prophecies aren’t really word from God? Or perhaps it is a further confirmation to the fact that Satan, the devil also acts as an angel of light? The Bible in Jeremiah 28:9 talks about how to know who sent the prophet by his proclamations, actions and antecedents: ‘The prophet who prophesieth of peace, when the word of the prophet shall come to pass, then shall the prophet be known, that the Lord hath truly sent him.’ So a person who says, ‘Thus saith the Lord..’ and his words do not come to pass (no matter how long it took) is not speaking for the Lord. “Within the development of the prophetic movement in Israel during the period of the monarchy, there arose two types of prophets. The first type was a group of independent prophets who claimed to speak on behalf of Yahweh and whose primary function was to challenge the awful policies of the king. These prophets also warned the people to return to the old traditions of the covenant. The second type was a group of prophets who were paid by the temple or the court and who proclaimed the kind of message their patrons desired to hear. This group of prophets came to be known as false prophets, not because of their desire to mislead the people, but rather, because they misinterpreted Yahweh’s intentions at times when the nation was facing great dangers. According to Vangemeren (1990), in times of moral darkness, the false prophets, predicting smooth things for the nation, independent of repentance, consecration and the pursuit of spiritual ideas, were honoured above the true prophets who emphasized the moral greatness of Yahweh and the necessity of righteousness for the nation.” {TRUE AND FALSE PROPHECY IN ‘ALL CHRISTIAN PRACTICAL PRAYING BAND (ACPPB)’, UFUMA, IN THE LIGHT OF JEREMIAH 27-28 by Luke E. Ugwueye and Ikenna L. Umeanolue } Without doubt, there are genuinely gifted men of God. Even though a few of the gifted men of God abuse this gift, there are also a whole lot who render false prophecies or use divination to predict for selfish gains and profit. Let me state my bias here. I am a bible believing Christian and I search the bible to know the mind of God. I am in no way a perfect being, but I strive daily to meet the expectation of God for my life so His will may always supercede any other will in my life. I have Pastors in my life, who assists in elucidating the truth in the word of God and I respect them. However, I am also concerned about the millions of lives that are being endangered and led astrayed by messages that are actually the imaginations from the mind of the speaker, prophesying for a selfish interest. The Bible states in Matthew 7:15-18 clearly the importance of the kinds of fruits we exhibit. And a person (prophet) who exhibits the kinds of fruits stated in Proverbs 6:16-19 should be fled from. We must be careful of the kinds of fruits that a prophet is exhibiting. They are warnings about him and his life including prophesies from him. Let’s use the two portions from the Bible above to establish how we can test all prophets and prophecies and there are six things we can deduce from this text. A lying tongue. Pride (arrogance, sauciness etc.). Oppression of the weak. James 5:5-6 Wicked heart. Not bothered about the well-being of people suffering around him. He doesn’t think through before taking actions or saying things. Tale bearer, causing problems and issues with his tales. The essence of this write up is not to condemn prophecies because they are required in the true sense of the word. However, the body of Christ is moving the wrong way because a lot of self-seeking churches, pastors and prophets manipulate prophecies and what they stand for. Without indicting anyone, Christendom needs to stand up and be counted. As an example, White evangelicals in the United States are touting Donald Trump and praising him as the best thing since sliced bread. Are they doing this based on their evaluation of Mr. Trump according to the standards of the Bible or are they also aligning with his racist stance for whatever reason? Was racism one of the positions that made them not support Obama fully? Yes, Obama, just like every human being is not perfect and he took a lot of positions that were against the stand of the Bible. So what has changed under Mr. Trump, a person whose utterances, actions and stance cannot stand the evaluation of Proverbs 6:16-19. The Washington Post on June 1 2020 in a story written by Glenn Kessler, Salvador Rizzo and Meg Kelly stated that “as at May 29, 2020, Mr. Trumps 1,226th day in office, He had made 19,127 false or misleading claims (which simply means he has lied on those number of times).” The writers went ahead to say that it is no longer a question as to whether he will exceed 20,000 false or misleading claims but that will he top 25,000 by the time this term is completed. So where the seed of sin abound in a person’s life, such a person is not of God. And the Bible in Galatians 5:19-21 was very clear about the works of the flesh (sin). As I close, God send prophets with messages / prophecies, for specific people and or occasions. Other purposes are to show that God is God, and to proclaim the Word of God. The Bible, the Word of God is there to guide our everyday living. It is indeed more beneficial, to seek understanding and knowledge of the Word of God because it answers to all issues and needs of our lives, so long as you are a true, born again child of God. Yes, God does continue to use prophecy and prophets to guide His church. I believe that the Lord wants us to be open but discerning about this aspect of His moving as there are many pitfalls in the use of the gift of prophecy. Do not expose yourself to manipulators in the name of wanting to know the future. Rather, hearken to what the Word of God says in Matthew 6:33, “But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and His righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you.” May the peace of God abide with you and grant you understanding. Shalom. Footnote: This was inspired by Pastor Biodun Oduwole. 