 Stakeholders at a two-day webinar on Decade of Action against Road Traffic Crashes, (otherwise known as Decade of Action) have said that the most-profound legacy the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration can leave for Nigeria is to give the nation a holistic transportation policy. The stakeholders, drawn from the academia, civil society organisations, government agencies, safety advocates and the media, insisted that such a policy could be the best birthday gift from the government to Nigerians, as the nation inches closer to its 60th Independence anniversary. The absence of a transportation policy, they insisted, has led to a season of anomie where it is difficult to define strategies or evolve a holistic initiative with clearly shared responsibilities – who does what, when, why, where and how. The Country Director of the Decade of Action, Prof. Sydney Ibeanusi, said though the nation may still be far from making the road crash free, the last decade, which ended on May 11, has seen the beginning of a journey which, if sustained, would achieve the dream for the country. He said a transportation policy would ensure that all state actors – federal, states and local governments – play their parts, to regulate none state actors and ensure the nation gets a transportation sector that truly befits its stature. The Decade of Action, Ibeanusi said, aims at achieving safer roads by strengthening national response to the five pillars, which include road safety management, safer roads and roads infrastructure, safer vehicles, safer road user behaviours and safer responses of all stakeholders. He said while Nigeria led several other nations on the first pillar by having an agency focused on road safety management, its strides on the remaining four were at best sluggish, adding that the same scensrio may recur, as the world begins the second decade of action should the situation persist. According to him, some initiatives, among them, the banning of motorcycles and tricycles as a means of transportation, use of seat belts, imposition of speed limits, onslaught against drunk driving, ban of phone use on wheel and child restraint are few of the initiatives, which have led to a 25 percent reduction in deaths from road crashes with 50 percent of this being the active age group. The convener of the webinar, Mr. Patrick Adenusi, said road crashes would continue to remain worrisome because it depletes the nation’s active population. He said poor investment, especially in African countries, was responsible for the continued trend. Adenusi, founder of Safety Without Borders, said while many of the African countries spends $75 on tuberculosis and $22 on malaria, only half a dollar is invested on road infrastructure and road traffic crashes across Africa. Also addressing data integrity, Adenusi said while the Nigeria Bureau of Statistics and the FRSC claimed about 5,000 accidents were recorded in Nigeria in 2018, the World Health Organisation (WHO)  differed, putting the figure sourced from other sources at about 39,000. Dean, School of Transportation, Lagos State University (LASU-SOT) Prof Samuel Adewunmi’s contribution was that contrary to widely- held misconception, road safety investment has a huge return on investment with positive impact on the health of citizens, the micro and macro economy. It has the potential to save over N5 trillion and ensure  psycho-social well-being, especially of orphans, who bear the brunt of such eventualities. FRSC Corps Marshal Dr. Boboye Oyeyemi said that it was high time road safety became a shared responsibility, adding that road users have an inalienable right to safe and safer use of the road being a shared asset. Boboye, who was represented by one of his aides, J. K. Fanola, said if the Decade of Action had done nothing at all, it has taken road safety issues from being an academic exercise, which it was some 20 years ago, to a topic of general interest by all. Boboye said he was satisfied with the interventions of the FRSC as a lead agency on road safety. He however urged greater synergy between it and other agencies involved in road safety matters. He said the Nigeria Road Safety Advisory Council (NRSAC), headed by the Vice President,  Prof Yemi Osinbajo, had developed a Nigeria Road Safety Strategy (NRSS), to ensure that state actors are on the same page on removal of impediments to achieving safer roads. Boboye, who made this known,  said FRSC was data-driven, adding that the agency has also berthed a Road Safety Academy, where its officers are trained.  He said plans were afoot on turning it into a centre of excellence to serve the need of the continent. Dean, School of Social Science and Professor of Transportation Studies, Iyiola Oni, however, challenged the FRSC to work on ensuring the believability of its accident and road safety data. He said the non-inclusiveness of other agencies in data gathering might continue to dog the integrity of the corps, which may continue to affect people’s perception of its effectiveness on road safety issues. To achieve this, he said, data “must be properly collated, processed, and presented”.  He urged the FRSC, Police, NBS, and Nigeria Population Commission to synegise at achieving saner data mining on road safety issues. Former Lagos State Commissioner of Transportation Kayode Opeifa bemoaned the situation where only 16  of the 36 states have  set up a road agency for safety management. For him, nothing would change until government at all levels synergise. Speaking on the imperatives of the third pillar – Safer vehicles to reduction in crashes, Olusegun Obayendo said with attention now on computerized vehicle testing, the nation in no time would have more percentage of road worthy vehicles that would not imperil road users. Obayendo, the Managing Director of Temple Group, owners of CVIS, in Abuja, and about 18 centres in Lagos, whose presentation opened interactive session on day two, said a higher partnership with the private sector is needed to achieve the lofty goals of safer roads. The Director, Directorate of Road Traffic Services, Abuja, Wadata Aliyu Bodinga, canvassed that for the second decade to succeed, policies must be states driven and implementation must cascade to the grassroots to promote the inclusiveness which was lacking in the last decade. He also called for improved road safety auditing, effective distribution of responsibilities among agencies, improved road construction and road safety designs and the strengthening of laws and collaboration between federal and state governments. Ike Okokwo, Director Arrive Alive, said Nigerian leaders must put structures in place to ensure that the roads are made safer for all users to achieve the milestones of reducing accidents in the next decade. Assistant Corps Marshal Hyginus Omeje, carpeted many state governments for putting revenue before safety, even as he wondered how they nation could move forward in the second decade without a policy which ought to be the roadmap for concerted action. “If you look at the five pillars, we are doing a little here and a little there, but there’s a huge more to do to make our roads more error forgiven,” Omeje added.