 THE $2.8 billion Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano (AKK) Gas Pipeline project kick-started virtually on July 1 by President Muhammadu Buhari is under threat. The Ijaw and Itsekiri ethnic groups in Warri, Delta State, on Sunday threatened to sabotage the project if work is not resumed on the $16billion Gas Revolution Integrated Project( GRIP)) in Ogidigben. The two major ethnic groups in Delta State, whose militants in the past crippled oil and gas production in the region, are also kicking against Federal Government’s failure to include them in the bid process for 57 marginal oil fields in their area. Apart from the GRIP and the inclusion of their kinsmen in the sale of the marginal oil fields, they want the restart of work on the Deep Sea Port in Okerenkoko, the Omadino-Escravos road project and the Floating Dock/Ship Building Yard, Okerenkoko. In a joint communiqué by the Gbaramatu Traditional Council of Chiefs and the Movement For Itsekiri Oil/Gas Producing Communities (MDIOGPC), the communities warned that the seeming delay in carrying out their threat to shut down oil and gas operations, after the expiration of their 10-day ultimatum, should not be mistaken for “weakness.” In the communiqué which was read by the Olorogun of Warri Kingdom, Chief Mike Odeli, they accused the Federal Government of being “adamant” in responding to their demands.” The Ijaw and Itsekiri lamented alleged marginalisation by the government through the Ministry of Petroleum Resources, the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation, the National Petroleum Investment Management Services (NAPIMS) and the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR). They noted that “the continuous neglect” of Gbaramatu indigenes and the Itsekiri by the government in investment opportunities in the petroleum industry, will “aggravate crude oil theft and pipeline vandalism”. The spokesman for Gbaramatu Kingdom, Chief Godspower Gbenekama, said: “We have respected our leaders and the state government. We have exercised patience for some days. We will go ahead with the shutdown. “If we have projects that cannot come on board, then every other project should not come on board. If there is no GRIP, then that is no AKK gas project. NPA (Nigerian Ports Authority) must start dredging the entrance of the Escravos River. “It’s been over 20years since Itsekiri and Ijaw communities came together to fight a cause. We have resolved to push our threats through. We will ensure that no oil, no gas flows from our land.” Others who spoke arehief Vero Tanbowei; Alex Eyengho, Shadrack Onicha Henry Atete, Paul Bebenimibo and Agbateyiniro Isaac. 