Residents of four local government areas in Lagos State, especially those living on flood plains, were on Thursday told to vacate their homes immediately. Those in 15 other councils also got the warning. Environment and Water Resources Commissioner Tunji Bello listed the councils to be worse-hit as Lagos Mainland, Mushin, Ibeju-Lekki and Ikorodu. Bello explained that the local governments have been identified as “highly probable flood risk in 2020”. In a statement Mr. Bello said the four listed councils will witness high intensity rainfall between now and September. He urged residents with structures in low land areas to relocate without delay to avoid any untoward incident that may come with flooding and loss of lives and properties. Quoting from the Annual Flood Outlook released by the Hydrological Services Agency on May 28, Bello identified 15 other local government areas as those at flood risk this year. The local government areas put on the red alert are: Lagos Island, Alimosho, Amuwo Odofin, Ikeja, Kosofe, Eti-Osa, Apapa, Ojo, Oshodi/Isolo, Agege, Ifako Ijaiye, Badagry, Surulere and Ajeromi-Ifelodun. Bello assured that the ministry would intensify ongoing efforts at clearing silted drains as exemplified by the efforts of the Emergency Flood Abatement Gang (EFAG) all over the black spots in the state. He advised residents to refrain from indiscriminate discharge of waste and to stop patronising itinerant cart pushers The commissioner described as unimaginable, the heaps of pet plastic bottles, styro foams and solid waste being excavated daily from drainage channels in Mushin, Idi Oro, Idi Araba, LUTH and Mile 2, among other areas within the Lagos metropolis. Relying on investigation, Bello said some traders dump waste from their daily sales and articles in the markets into the drains, thus inhibiting free flow of water into its channels. He urged residents to desist from clogging drainage channels with refuse, especially those already cleaned up, adding that the unpatriotic act of some residents is putting the lives of those working on the drains in danger. Bello warned that anyone caught in the act will face the full wrath of the law. He assured that the government was working tirelessly to restore drainage alignment in areas where sand-filling activities were carried out to enhance water transportation.