A former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, would play a crucial role in the ongoing reconciliation efforts of the All Progressives Congress (APC), it was learnt on Thursday. A member of the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Committee of the APC, Senator Yusuf Yusuf (Taraba North) disclosed this while answering questions from reporters in Abuja. Yusuf who represents the Senate in the APC’s Caretaker Committee described the recent return of Dogara to the party as a huge relief considering his reach, influence and being one of the party’s founding fathers. Yusuf said: “Dogara took a wrong step in the first place. He was one of the most trusted members of our party. “He was misguided to have left the APC at a very wrong time. We are happy that he is back to the house that he built alongside other leaders. “He is going to be considered as one of the strong members of the party who will play a very critical role in our reconciliation efforts being a very strong member of the House of Representatives.” On the forthcoming Edo/Ondo elections, Yusuf expressed optimism that the APC candidates in the two states would win the forthcoming governorship elections. He said, “We are doing very well. The campaign train in Edo is going on very well. We are receiving defectors daily. “The situation is the same in Ondo State. Those who have issues with the governor are being reached out to, just to ensure that all areas of disagreements are addressed before the election. “We are doing everything possible to ensure that we address all the challenges we have in the party so that our candidates would win the elections. “That is why we have been doing everything possible to make sure that the party is strong again. “The APC is getting ready to stand on its feet once again. All the challenges are being tackled one after the other. “We are just preparing to go for election. We are doing very well under the leadership of our Chairman, who is the Governor of Yobe State.” A member of the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Committee of the APC, Senator Yusuf Yusuf (Taraba North) disclosed this while answering questions from reporters in Abuja. Yusuf who represents the Senate in the APC’s Caretaker Committee described the recent return of Dogara to the party as a huge relief considering his reach, influence and being one of the party’s founding fathers. Yusuf said: “Dogara took a wrong step in the first place. He was one of the most trusted members of our party. “He was misguided to have left the APC at a very wrong time. We are happy that he is back to the house that he built alongside other leaders. “He is going to be considered as one of the strong members of the party who will play a very critical role in our reconciliation efforts being a very strong member of the House of Representatives.” On the forthcoming Edo/Ondo elections, Yusuf expressed optimism that the APC candidates in the two states would win the forthcoming governorship elections. He said, “We are doing very well. The campaign train in Edo is going on very well. We are receiving defectors daily. “The situation is the same in Ondo State. Those who have issues with the governor are being reached out to, just to ensure that all areas of disagreements are addressed before the election. “We are doing everything possible to ensure that we address all the challenges we have in the party so that our candidates would win the elections. “That is why we have been doing everything possible to make sure that the party is strong again. “The APC is getting ready to stand on its feet once again. All the challenges are being tackled one after the other. “We are just preparing to go for election. We are doing very well under the leadership of our Chairman, who is the Governor of Yobe State.”