The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) University of Jos Branch has donated a 1000-seater twin lecture theatre to the Management of the university as part of its contribution to addressing the infrastructural needs of the institution. UNIJOS ASUU chairman, Dr. Lazarus Maigoro, said the project cost the union N63.2 million contributed over the years. He disclosed this at the weekend during the handing over ceremony of the project to the school management at the Naraguta campus where the project was constructed. Maigoro said: “We decided to embark on this project also because government has not lived up to its responsibility of funding education. “The situation is so bad that it is lecturers that in the University who are erroneously perceived as strike mongers and very recalcitrant people that are now using their salaries to build classrooms to assist the government and students while Nigerian public is keeping quiet.” He added the union has been offering scholarships to five indigent students every session with their total tuitions covered. He added they have so far produced 2000 bottles of hand sanitisers as well as 1,000 awareness hand bills to organisations at no cost as part of its contributions in the fight against coronavirus in Plateau State. The National President of the union, Prof. Biodun Ogunyemi, said UNIJOS ASUU has raised the bar of trade union patriotism with the donation. He said: “UniJos has today added a fresh perspective to addressing the infrastructural deficit on our campuses that would go down in history as unequalled. “We cannot pretend that we have all it takes to solve the problem. Our members are stressed and distressed. “Our salary structure has been stagnated for 11years. And the forceful migration to discredited integrated Payroll and Personal information system (IPPIS),has further distorted and devalued the take home pay of our members. ” By and by, what we take as salaries is fast losing in values and our capacity to embrace the path of philanthropy is rapidly diminishing.” The Vice Chancellor, Prof. Sebastian Seddi Maimako, represented by Prof. Ishaya Tanko, the Deputy Vice Chancellor Academics, said the survival development of public Universities in Nigeria thanked the union for coming to their aids and promised to make good used of the structure.