Some professors at the University of Lagos (UNILAG) have expressed support for embattled Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council, Dr. Wale Babalakin and chided the institution’s branch of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) for threatening him. Their reaction followed warning by ASUU-UNILAG that Babalakin should not visit the campus for Council meeting scheduled for Wednesday to Friday because the union had passed a no confidence vote on him over the postponement of the institution’s convocation in March. The meeting has been cancelled. In a statement signed by Professor of Finance and Former Chairman UNILAG-ASUU (2005-2010), Ayo Olowe on behalf of Prof. Yomi Akinyeye, Prof. Lai Olurode, Prof. Nwabueze and some others, the lecturers described ASUU-UNILAG’s warning to Babalakin to stay away from campus as disrespectful. It reads: “Our attention has been drawn to various publications in several newspapers by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (UNILAG Branch) restricting the movement on campus of Pro Chancellor and Chairman of the Governing Council, Dr. Bolanle Olawale Babalakin OFR, SAN,. We want to state unequivocally that this provocative, disrespectful and illogical threat does not represent the collective will of the majority of academic staff and other stakeholders of the University of Lagos. “ASUU, as a union, respects the rule of law especially the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria which guaranteed the free movement of all Nigerians within Nigeria. Thus, the purported threat on the movement of the Pro Chancelllor, Dr.Wale Babalakin is not in line with the tradition and constitution of ASUU. ASUU, as a union has formal procedural way of presenting its grievances, always dialogues and follows due process.” The dons expressed confidence in Babalakin’s leadership and assured him of their support. He said: “Dr. Babalakin, an illustrious alumnus of the University of Lagos, has since his assumption of office as the Pro Chancellor, been playing an outstanding role in its oversight functions in the conduct of the affairs of the University of Lagos. We along with the majority of the stakeholders of the University have full confidence in the leadership of Dr. Wale Babalakin’s led Council. We also dissociate ourselves from any act or action capable of obstructing the oversight function of the Dr. Wale Babalakin’s led Council. “We therefore want to assure Dr. Babalakin and any other Nigerian citizen of their free movement within the University of Lagos and any other part of Nigeria. It is possible that there could be conflict between ASUU and the University, we will talk to our members to follow the tradition and Constitution of ASUU in pursuing grievances with the University.”