Adesuwa ‘Sunshine’ Oransaye is an actress known with the sobriquet, Princess Ene for her role in the African Magic series’Ajoche’. In this interview with YETUNDE OLADEINDE, she talked about how her passion for acting started as a child, inspiration, memorable experience and more.  Tell us about the new things that you are working on? I currently have a couple of budding productions, commercials and social campaign projects that I am working on for the next phase of my career. However, due to the current Pandemic we have not fully launched to the public. When we do and once the time is right, the efforts made will be justified and you will be the first to know about this. I am more of a creative person, so I guess it would be safe to also say that there is always something new to work on. How did you get into acting? What was the first role you did? Acting has always been a part of me. Something I could call “innate”. I started acting since I was a child by participating in church and school plays which eventually spurred me to study Theatre Arts at the University. However, my first professional acting gig in Nollywood was in a ROK movie titled “One Night” where I played the role of a Doctor. What were you doing before this? Prior to acting, I had a career in the communications and media industry. I worked as Marketing/Events Executive for a radio station. I also had a stint with a digital marketing agency before I joined a media training institute, where I served as a Business Development Manager and Training Cordinator. While I was working in the corporate world , I had my mind set on acting, so I decided to quit and take on acting full time  as I realised I couldn’t comfortably combine a 9-5 with an acting career. I must say that acting is quite a jealous profession (laughs). Tell us about life as an actress? What are some of the movies that you have participated in? Life as an actress has been nothing short of amazing. Although it comes with its challenges but it’s been an interesting experience. I have participated in a number of movies and series, the most notable being Africa Magic’s “Ajoche” where I played the role of Princess Ene. It’s funny how you play major roles in movies, your audience see you as the character even in real life situations (chuckles). Sometimes, I am called Princess Ene by most people who still see me in public, especially the likes of those who now say they have become “fans”. I get that a lot and I think I’m beginning to get used to it. Sometimes, I have no option but to answer the name.  I have also been in other projects which will soon be released.   Tell us about the other movies that you have participated in? Sometimes when asked this question I laugh a lot because I actually lose count in my head or sometimes go blank like in an examination. This is because productions are a little more of regular acts to keep tabs. Can I remember all of it? Trust me I may have to think here. Anyway, like I said earlier I’ve been featured in a number of movies, released and others yet to be released. Some of which include: Beautiful Monster, How the shooter got shot, My grandfather’s wife, I will have an affair, Two can play at that, to name a few. I also got a short role in the acclaimed Living in Bondage (Breaking Free) and Your Excellency. What or who inspires the things you do? I am a Christian and that has influenced my life greatly. So you can understand who my first inspiration would be. I am most inspired by my family, they’re the ones who raised me and constantly motivate and support me to be a better person in life and career. They love what I do.. And of course, my friends do as well, those who have grown to like my acting behind the camera. You all have played a major part in this process. What are some of the other things that occupy your time? When I’m not working I like spending time with family and friends. I also like to be by myself, sometimes as it gives me enough space to harness my creative energy and regenerate. We all need that “moment ” you know. Retreat or Recess time. What I call “time for you.” Tell us about the people you admire? There are a number of people I admire; these are people who are taking great strides in business, politics, ministry and leadership. What are some of the memorable moments in your life and career? I have had a lot of memorable moments in my life. From growing up in Delta state, to schooling in Benin-City, to my NYSC days in Imo State and to my professional life in Lagos. But none of it compares to the thrill of being on a film set. There’s this feeling of joy I get whenever I’m on set, I know I’m working but work is fun. Getting to take on different characters, giving life to them while working with an amazing team is the most memorable part of my job. In the face of challenges I must still say Life is beautiful- let’s make fond memories out of it. What were the initial challenges? Getting into and sustenance in the industry is quite challenging. The industry is highly competitive and you have to keep a positive mindset if you want to go far. As a matter of fact, I’ve felt like quitting most of the time. Everyone does, just like any other profession. It’s in the human nature to feel that way but I’m not going to quit, Not yet. (Smiles). What are you looking forward to in the next few years? The future is bright. The plan basically is to do as much quality work as I can. Build my production company and live an impactful life. One of the essence of living is to have a life of purpose and positive influence. I intend to do just that. I’m an advocate for social justice, peace and development. I dream of a better world as well and hope to be a voice for impact. Tell us about your favorite holiday spot? I’m someone who loves to travel. Can I say travelling is one of my hobbies? …(thinking). Picking a favourite spot is a bit of a challenge because I love to explore new locations. I do not like to visit a particular destination more than once. The moment I tick it off my list, I move on to the next… You can call me a travel explorer and you may just be correct!  What is your definition of style? My definition of style would be “comfort and class” I believe being comfortable is key. I’m not the adventurous type when it comes to fashion. If I’m not comfortable in an outfit, if it doesn’t exude class, I may not wear it. What are the things that you won’t do in the name of fashion? I like to “cover” with less exposure. I would attribute this to my background, personality and more importantly my desire to be comfortable with myself and around people… like I said earlier I’m not adventurous when it comes to fashion, I’d rather play it safe but classy. Who or what do you consider as the greatest influence in your life? My Christian faith. I believe in the golden rule that says “Do unto others as you would have them do unto you. How would you describe Nigerian women in the entertainment sector today? The Nigerian Woman is strong, resilient, purposeful and loving. Women surely are making giant strides in the industry and I would love to see an increase in the  number of women in the industry going beyond acting to production and holding key positions of influence. What about the awards and recognitions? I’m still new in the industry, however, fast rising. So be sure to hear of awards and nominations soon in the industry. But I was nominated in the “Fast rising Actor” category in the 2019 edition of The Intellects Award.   What advise do you have for young people post COVID-19 era? I appreciate every young person in Nigeria and globally.  For me, being young signifies strength, tenacity and greatness. The Pandemic like every other global health challenge will pass. We must have to take out lessons from the experience. Personal responsibility for our health going forward, and work out measures for self-improvement, exploring positive alternatives to wealth creation in the coming years, shake up and know that together we will make it through. What items do you cherish in your wardrobe? For me the items that I cherish most in my wardrobe basically are my dresses and one piece clothing’s. They’re my comfort clothes. What types of books do you like to read? Motivational books I guess… Books which inspire, lifts my spirit and spur me towards greatness. These are books that basically influence me to be a better person.