 A UNITED States (U.S.)-based doctor, Dr. Stella Emmanuel, has cried out to the world to expose the conspiracy of a group of pharmaceutical practitioners on COVID-19. The radiologist, who said she has singlehandedly treated over 350 COVID-19 with no record of death, most of them the elderly with underlying ailments, said she has  been getting death threats for her stance and has run to the White House to expose the conspiracy. According to Dr. Emmanuel, COVID-19 has a cure and there is no need to wear a mask or create social distance. Fearing for her life, she made a recorded speech to tell the world that there was nothing to fear. She said: “I’m Dr. Stella Emmanuel. I’m a primary care physician in Houston, Texas. I actually went to medical school in West Africa, Nigeria, where I took care of malaria patients treated with hydroxychloroquine and stuff like that. So, I’m actually used to these medications “I’m here because I have personally treated over 350 patients with COVID – patients that have diabetes; patients that have high blood pressure; patients that have asthma. My oldest person is 92, 87-year-old and the result has been the same. I put them on hydroxychloroquine, Zinc and Zithromax; and they are all well. For the past few months, I’ve taken care of over 350 patients. “I have not lost one patient and on top of that, I’ve put myself, my staff and many doctors that I know on the same drug for prevention.” But, the Guild of Medical Directors has declared that there is no scientific proof to back Dr Emmanuel’s claim of cure for COVID-19 pandemic. Its President, Prof. Olufemi Babalola, said in a statement that the video, where Emmanuel claimed cure for COVID-19, was part of a news conference organised by the America’s Frontline Doctors, a group founded by Dr. Simone Gold, a board-certified physician and attorney. He said many researches are ongoing on the issue and until their conclusion, all anecdotal claims such as the one from Dr. Stella Immanuel must be taken with a pinch of salt.  