This  is a birthday essay for  me  as my birthday was July  15 this  week   and  I start  by thanking God for  his mercies and greatness in my life . I  go back to history and 1975 during my  NYSC  stint  to derive inspiration for today’s   topic from  a very interesting analogy  in the past  .  I served  in the former  North East  from which  six states  were later  created  from  a population of  15million  people from the latest  census figures then . I  was  later posted  to Gwoza  and  finished at  Mubi  where I  taught Economics  at the then  Federal  School  of Arts  and Science –FSAS- Mubi  . At  the NYSC  orientation camp we  were  told that  in case  of  any  accident   when driving we should  flee,  yes  that was the word, to  a safe  police station for  protection and not even wait  to help  the victim  as we would be mobbed and killed.  We  were  even warned  to make sure that the police station was  well manned  and guarded   and to go on fleeing if it   was not. That was the North  East   of Nigeria  in 1975 and  that was a clear definition and illustration of  Mobocracy which  has never left  my mind  and which  I never prayed  to experience  ever  since. But  that  was  what happened to a Nigerian  Usman  Yamah   this year 2020  in  Ikorodu , in  Lagos   state  who  hit  a disabled man,  attempted to flee the spot   of the accident, but was raced down  by Okada  riders who stabbed him  to death, even  though his accident  victim was still  alive  by the time  the bad roads   made  his escape  from the  Okada    lynch   mob  impossible ,  and ultimately fatal  for  him. That  Okada  mob killing in Ikorodu  which  the Police  are still  investigating is an ever present danger to all  vehicle  drivers in Nigeria and especially  Lagos  state where Okada has been banned but the state  government  has never been  able  to  effect  its own  laws. In  addition  the bad  roads  which  made the escape of the Ikorodu  driver  Yamah   to safety,   and   in search   of security,   impossible , is reminiscent  of the parlous state  of the roads in the state.  Especially in this  pandemic  which  seem   to have consumed  the time of the state  government  as if the pandemic is  going    to be   for ever and   should be the sole concern of the state government for now and ever. My  birthday  concern today is    focused on   the   okada   Mobocracy in   Ikorodu  and the attendant  street jungle justice ; the insecurity  and  bad  roads of Lagos and indeed Nigeria  and  the need to  meet    the resulting    challenges of  security  and  rural  urban  migration   subsequently. This  really    is  the  root  of  the Okada menace  on our  roads  as  a means  of  travel  and communication . In  addition  I take a look  at  the states of the former North East  as  well  as the census  figure  of 15 million  from  the 1973  census  which was eventually cancelled   but  from    which   the   six  states  were created. The  six states are  Adamawa, Bauchi, Borno, Gombe,  Taraba  and   Yobe.  I   also  explore   the need  for  infrastructural  development  to  boost  the economy   post  pandemic ,  even as we try  to face the reality that our census figures don’t tally  with  geographical and environmental  realities of  today  .  ln deed     for  now  Nigeria  is projected    to have a population of  210.87million  in 2021 and 215.87million  by 2022. I  will  all   the same   try to show  that  Mobocracy  is not peculiar  to  the  Okadas alone.   It   is essentially    a mass   movement. It  abounds in our politics in terms  of vendettas ,    mass  protests      such   as  ‘Me Too’ , ‘ Black  Lives Matter ‘  and  political  retribution. It   can  be seen   in political  parties ,  in   global  diplomacy  and   certainly  in    the politics of other  nations,  both developed  and undeveloped,  regardless   of the raging pandemic. But  as  the Okada’s  have shown in Ikorodu  it can  be as  murderous and killing as this  mad  pandemic. Let  me go back to  the  former  North East   which    was  the largest  state  in Nigeria  in terms of population according to the cancelled 1973 census  figures . Nowadays ,  the North East  has become the theater  of war for  the intractable Boko  Haram  insurgency against  which  a large  number of our soldiers are resigning   from the army because  of  complaint  over poor  equipment to execute   the war . Aside  from the North East a spate  of killings are going on in the North West   concomitantly  with the Boko  Haram  insurgency.  But   Borno  state , in the North East and  Katsina and Kaduna states   have  the   largest  census figures in  Nigeria  and invariably  have the largest number  of votes in most  Nigerian  elections   even at the height  of the  insusrgency  in Borno State. So, for certain census figures have always been  manipulated because they  go hand in hand with revenue allocation  to the states .But   it is also  the case  that North South  migration has always  been  ongoing in Nigeria especially  to  Lagos  and yet  the North ,   in all Nigeria’s  census   ,  has always  had  over  50  per cent  of  the  population.  Which means that the destination of migrants  is  having  less population than the origins  of the North  South migration . Which is a very  demographic  inexactitude or  anomaly. In  geographical  terms the   North  East  is  vast  like  the   contiguous  neighboring states like Niger   and  Chad  which  do not claim the sort of   large  figures we allocate  to  these Sahel  states in Nigeria.   Such   high populations    have been the basis of carving six states   out of the Nigeria’s  North East  which  is where Boko  Haram  is terrorizing  with  bloody  raids and  reportedly better  equipment and ammunition than  the Nigerian army.  This  accounts  for why  for now Nigeria is spending a lot on insecurity, resettlement and rehabilitation of displaced people when  such  resources  could  have  been used to  make and build hospitals, schools,  roads  and  other  infrastructure  in these  areas. Such   infrastructure  would  reduce  the incessant  North South  migration that is straining  the old and poor  infrastructure of  the south    and  creating the Mobocracy  of Okada  transportation   and the impotence  of government  in containing it,  at  least  in Lagos state. As  I  said before  Mobocracy  exists  in other forms as         a form  of  retaliation or  vendetta in political  systems. You  can read vendetta or  Mobocracy  in the way the APC  Edo State  primaries were conducted and concluded  recently leading  to the emigration  or defection of the governor  of the state to the opposition PDP   for  the coming guber election  in the state.  Even  in the US  you  can  read Mobocracy  clearly  in the mudslinging and hostile  campaigns  going on for the forthcoming November presidential  election between  Donald Trump  for the Republicans and Joe  Biden for the Democrats. At   state level  you  can  see Mobocracy  in the way Donald  Trump  retaliated against his  former  Attorney  General  Jeff  Sessions  by  supporting an opponent in his state of Alabama against  him  and ensuring he was defeated in his bid for  senatorial  election because of  his decision  to recuse himself from   Russia  election meddling Muller  probe,  without clearing  from  Trump  as president  first . Even   the July 12 presidential  election  won by the current  president in Poland  by a margin  of 51   to  49  per  cent was a passionate  political  exercise and struggle  between gay  and  family  rights  and  the morals   of  the Catholic  Church  in  hitherto  fiercely  Christian  Poland . It  was won on the campaign of the winner that gay  rights were worse  than Communism from  which  Poland  struggled  to free itself   for  years   during the  Cold  war    and    after the oppression of the Nazis  in Hitler’s  time   during the Second World  War  of 1939   to  1945.   Certainly   the pandemic  closed the gap  in   the Polish  election   as it is a killing virus  that does  not respect issues or campaign slogans. But  the  Catholics in Poland   can  still  be proud  to be Polish  while the gays have to  look  for  having their  ways around Poland,  next time around. Again  from Nigeria I end by saying  –   From the fury of this pandemic Good  Lord Deliver Nigeria Amen.  