They are popular and acknowledged practitioners in Nollywood. They charge in millions and appear in top movies. But they are yet to be verified on Instagram. To be verified means the account owner is real and authentic. It is a symbol of prestige and recognition. It doesn’t mean they are not popular. But it could mean they are not active on the mirco-blogging platform or have not engaged enough to get the seal of verification  Ebelle Okaro Onyiuke was born on 19 January. The actress is a also a film producer. Okaro was born in London and raised in Enugu. She began acting while attending the Santa Maria Primary School and continued while at Nsukka’s Queen of the Holy Rosary Secondary School. After beginning studies of Education at the University of Calabar, Okaro found her passion for the dramatic arts and earned a Bachelor’s degree in Theatre Arts. Her mother was a full-time television producer and her father, an engineer, had great interest in arts and literature.  John Ikechukwu Okafor, popularly known as Mr. Ibu, is a leading actor and comedian. Okafor is considered to be one of Nollywood most talented comic characters. His humorous acting is often characterised by stupidity, hilarious imbecility and a sharp disconnection from reality. He hails from Nkanu West L.G., Enugu State. After elementary school, in 1974, Okafor moved to Sapele to stay with his brother after his father’s demise. In Sapele, he did menial jobs so he could sponsor himself to school and support his family. He then worked as a hairstylist, ventured into photography and also worked in a company that produces crates. After secondary school, he was admitted into the College of Education, Yola but pulled out due to financial difficulties. He later enrolled in the Institute of Management and Technology (IMT) as soon as he was financially able to.  Chiwetalu Agu was born 1956. He is a veteran actor, comedian and movie producer who won the 2012 Nollywood award for ‘best actor in indigenous movie (non-English speaking language)’. His usage of specific language slang, phrases or clichés in each film has made him uniquely a household name in Nigeria and among Nollywood admirers abroad. While asserting that comic genre is a unique vehicle in projecting local culture globally as well as establishing the Nollywood brand, Agu is listed as one of the outstanding comedians who have contributed to the development of Nollywood comic genres by Prof. Femi Shaka of the University of Port Harcourt.[4] Agu is married to Nkechi and has three sons and two daughters.  Anayo Modestus Onyekwere popularly known as Kanayo O. Kanayo, was born on March 1, 1962 in Mbaise, Imo State, Nigeria. In 2006 he won the African Movie Academy Award for Best Actor in a leading role. In 1992, Kanayo made his debut movie appearance in the film Living in Bondage. Kanayo has starred in over 100 films. He is a United Nations ambassador and bears the title of MFR. Kanayo, along with Kenneth Nnebue (producer of Living in Bondage), Olu Jacobs, Enoch Adeboye, Queen Elizabeth and Fela Kuti were among those honoured by the government in 2014 during the centenary celebration  Bob-Manuel Obidimma Udokwu was born on 18 April. He is an actor, director, producer and politician. In 2014, he received the lifetime achievement award at the 10th Africa Movie Academy Awards. He was nominated for Best Actor in a supporting role at the 2013 Nollywood Movies Awards for his role in Adesuwa. He is from Nkwelle-Ogidi, Idemmili North LGA of Anambra State, Nigeria. He was also famous for anchoring the Gulder Ultimate search.  Emeka Ike is a Nigerian actor who was born on 22 March 1967. Emeka Ike is one of the actors famous for his roles as a lover/ play boy in movies. He has acted so many movies, including: After My Heart, Test My Heart, Strength of a woman, A Can of Worms, Love Affair, Stigma, My Love, Secret Act, Housemates and the man, The Snake Girl.  Zeal Chigozie Atuanya  is a actor, producer and entrepreneur. Chigozie Atuanya was born in Aba, Abia State but hails from Agu-Ukwu Nri in Anambra State. He holds a B.Sc. in Public Administration from Enugu State University of Science and Technology. He made his screen debut in a 1998 film titled King Jaja of Opobo and has since gone on to produce and star in several films.[3] He was once a model for Delta Soap, appearing in one of their television commercials.  Elizabeth Omowunmi Tekovi Da-Silva was born on June 10, 1978. She is a Nigerian born actress and movie producer of Togolese descent featuring predominantly in the Nigerian Yoruba movie industry. In 2016 Da-Silva was nominated for City People Movie Award for Best Supporting Actress of the Year (Yoruba) at City People Entertainment Awards and in 2018 won the award for Best Actress in a Supporting Role at Best of Nollywood Awards.  Rita Edochie comes from Nigeria in Anambra state. She started her acting career as an actress in 1997. She is a famous face in the Nollywood movie industry. She studied at Onitsha for her secondary school education. She got married to Tony Edochie of Anambra Broadcasting Service soon after completing her secondary school education.