 Waidi Akanni is not your average football ex-international. He’s ambitious and likes to make things happen. Call him a man on the go and you won’t be wrong. Before becoming a household name after the bronze winning Nigeria Flying Eagles team to 1985 FIFA World Youth Championship in Soviet Union (USSR), he had played for Lagos youth clubs NAOC FC (1980) and KODA FC (1981-82). That prepared him for bigger challenges with professional clubs; NEPA (83-85) and Flash Flamingo 85-86. Akanni’s teammates in the Flying Eagles squad include captain Andrew Uwe, Alloy Agu, Kingsley Onye, Augustine Igbinabaro, Monday Odiaka, Obabaifo Osaro, Wasiu Ipaye, and Samson Siasia, most of whom progressed to the senior team; the Super Eagles team that qualified Nigeria for the 1988 Nations Cup qualifier. Akanni also played in the 1990 World Cup qualifier. On return from the Russia championship, he made his move abroad and enrolled at Howard University United States (U.S), where he studied Engineering to the Masters level. While in the United States he played for Boston Bolts (1990) and Maryland FC. MENTORS Throughout this journey, Akanni said two people played an inspirational role in his life; charismatic Green Eagle midfielder Mudashiru Lawal and coach Tunde Disu. “I looked up to late Muda Lawal. I played against him and alongside him at NEPA FC. One day he said to me: ‘Forget about what you’ve done yesterday. Forget about your last game. Always think of today and what you have done for yourself that will make you a better person tomorrow. If you live in the past then you will be an ex-international. Strive to become a veteran. Tomorrow has to be a function of today, and today is another day.” “Those words became my companions. Ever since, I’ve looked up to him. Though we were actually playing same position (midfield), Mudashiru Lawal mentored me. He was not bothered that I could take his place. Ever since, I’ve followed the do’s and don’ts he gave me. “I was in the U.S when he died in 1999, and I rushed home because we were always communicating. Whenever I’m in Nigeria Muda will take me to Amala joint, so I remember the memories I had with him. I was devastated by his death because he’s one of the first Ambassadors of football in Nigeria. He was open and simple. He was not educated but his behaviors were more than that of an educated person and that’s what we should be telling our up and coming players. “Not been educated does not mean you cannot achieve. Make sure you forget yesterday, do today and then you move on to the next day. I did not believe Muda could die suddenly.” He said of his other mentor, coach Disu spotted and groomed him. The debonair coach later headed the coaching crew of the Flying Eagles. “He gave me my first soccer boots in 1979 at 11 years old. He just walked up to me and gave me the boots because I was playing with bare legs. So up till today, I admire him and adore him.” In 1999, same year he lost his mentor, Akanni began to understudy sporting events managers starting with the ‘Taribo West and Friends Charity Match.’ “I was partially involved in that charity show at the Lagos National Stadium and I saw the reaction. That actually spurred me to go into sporting events. I thought I could create an environment where football legends can come together to add value to government and earn something for themselves. Jay Jay Okocha’s Testimony followed in 2006 in Warri. I was also part of that. Then we had Kanu Testimonial Match and Yobo Testimonial Match with top players coming from all over the world. It was a successful event and the Rivers state governor Nyesom Wike magnanimous hosted it.  I studied and gained experience from these shows. From here he started his own shows. “They gave me an idea that we can do something to encourage our serving governors, office holders and those who have done very well in their fields.” Akanni has crisscrossed the country attracting football legends to play for politicians and governors but the 2019 Akinwunmi Ambode Testimonial Football Match in honour of the outgoing governor of Lagos state, dwarfed all. “Samson Siasia and I got together and we sold the idea to the Lagos state government to celebrate governor Ambode for his outstanding works. Football stars from Africa and the rest of the world were invited.  George Weah and Didier Drogba couldn’t make it but they sent their representatives. We were able to bring in Bonfere Joe, El Hadji Diouf, Didier Zokora, Khalilou Fadiga, Diomansy Kamara, Okocha, Daniel Amokachie, Uche Okechukwu and many others. Everybody came and it was successful. It was also an avenue to network and sell ideas.” The entrepreneur (he runs a bakery and restaurants) said he’s driven by the obsession to add value to people and community. He advised struggling ex-players to do same. “You need to come out, you cannot stay in your house, you need to empower yourself. The little you can do, not minding age, is to come out in your locality and try to make a difference, if by so doing, you can create a small job for yourself. Ex-internationals should not be waiting for Nigeria to come and give them money. You must come out. I am not in support of ex-internationals begging for money, for medicals, for food. You can still come out and improve yourself; you can make a difference in your local community. You can add value.” Not one to shy away from political issues as it affects football, the one-time chairman of Lagos State Football Association (LSFA) is open about his thoughts for Nigerian football. LAGOS FOOTBALL Beginning with Lagos, he said it is not awkward that the commercial hub of Nigeria does not have a striving state team. “Having played in Lagos and being the chairman Lagos F.A for four years, I can understand the reason why Lagos does not have a particular team. Having one means you will kill off every other team that wants to grow in a state. I will give you examples: If you go to Kano, Akwa-Ibom, and Rivers states, you will see that they have state teams. They are the only teams that are doing well in those states. “Lagos is a metropolitan, Lagos is big. So, the government of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Raji Fashola, and Akinwunmi Ambode realized that creating a level platform for everybody will develop sport and football in Lagos. And if you take your mind back you know that we used to have ACB, NEPA, First Bank, Julius Berger FC, Stores and others. These were private teams that made Lagos thrive in those days. I support the idea that Lagos State government should not have a football team. He, however, said the state should create an enabling environment for corporate bodies to support sport and football. “The state need to create the environment whereby individuals and private companies will see the need to form teams as it was done before. Give them tax incentives, give them a lot of benefits, and that will empower more people and create jobs every year.” NFF At the national level, he advised the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) to engage more of ex-players to man the technical areas.  “In modern day football, it is not enough for an ex-international and ex-player to say that he should be the chairman of the F.A. I was once the F.A chairman. I know there are a lot of administrative you need to know. You must be administratively qualified to run a football association. The problem I see is that some of the people running football association in Nigeria don’t want the ex-players to come around them even as technical people and that is where I see we need to enlighten them. “In FIFA, the first thing on their card is football development. And who can develop football for you if it’s not those that have played the game before? So, being an F.A chairman does not mean that you cannot bring them into the fold. Let them head the technical committee, let them be part of it, and they can also learn from there. “There are football events at the federal and state levels that ex-players can handle for the federation. NFF can create a center where all the ex-players from different states converge, though, it is not everybody that can be at the central committee, but, they can be in the states. Create something for them. Local leagues need a lot of ex-players, and once they can get them in that fold, I believe that their fortunes will improve and everybody will start to enjoy themselves instead of fighting each other for peanuts that FIFA is bringing.” PLAYERS UNION Akanni is also bothered by the division among players. He believed that this is doing more harm to the players than the federation. “How can you be struggling in Nigeria to have one Players’ Union? For close to 30 years we have been having this problem. It is very bad. It is not the federation’s business, but that of the players. If we come together, we can help each other develop. When I was the F.A chairman, a lot of ex-players come to me and there were always things for them to do. Lets come together as one and we achieve better result.” The Lagos-born is already thinking about his next project. “The idea that comes to mind and one of the things I like to do around sport is to use it to develop, empower and create awareness for younger people. They need to be told about the people that have played the game before them, people that have created this platform for them to make money. For example: who still remembers Patrick Okala, Emmanuel Okala’s younger brother. We need to tell our stories by bringing everybody together and create awareness that sport, football in particularly, can be used to develop the youths, ourselves and contribute to the economy of Lagos State,” added Akanni.