The All Progressives Congress (APC) is working to win the coming Edo and Ondo governorship elections, it has been learnt. The party is determined to regain the seven states it lost during the 2019 general election and win even more. A member of the Caretaker/Extra-ordinary National Convention Planning Committee of the APC, Senator Yusuf Abubakar Yusuf (Taraba Central), made this known at the weekend while answering questions from reporters. Yusuf, who represents the Senate at the panel, said the committee is working with the leadership and members of the APC in the two states to attain unity and cohesion required before the elections. He said: “You know, in politics, 24 hours is a very long time. Anything can happen. You know, we are in the process of reconciliation. The governor of Niger State is working on the reconciliation in Ondo State. “It’s an issue on the table of the stakeholders in Ondo, and I’m sure things are going to be sorted out. “Even the issue of deputy speaker that was impeached will also be addressed as regards why he was impeached. It’s not something I can say at this point in time, it’s democracy at work. “We will wait and see how it will go. But we know that such an issue should not affect the chances of the party in the coming election in Ondo State, the same way efforts are being made to ensure oneness and victory of the party in the coming governorship election in Edo State. “The Caretaker Committee has been working towards making reconciliation with our members and also working to see that we retain Edo and Ondo states in the coming elections.” Yusuf added that the National Caretaker Committee is making progress in achieving unity among groups in the party. This, he explained, is being achieved through visitation to national stakeholders and phone conversation with others. Yusuf said: “We have extended our hands of fellowship to every member of APC and work as a family for the progress and stability of the party. I’m not aware that any dissenting voice has gone to court. “We have agreed, as directed by President Muhammadu Buhari that we should have our cases withdrawn from courts and move for full blown reconciliation. “Our team had met Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and you have heard what he said. As far as he’s concerned, there is no division in the party. It is democracy. “There must be one or two, who will say he or she doesn’t feel happy the way he is treated or the way the party is being managed, who the committee is ready to pacify.” He admitted that the committee is facing challenges in its peace mission, but is sure of overcoming them. “When you are dealing with a challenging issue in the house, you will not say you have overcome them. “We are in the process of overcoming the challenges. We are in the process of talking to people we know are very important. “We are not saying the road ahead is going to be easy. It is a challenge we will work hard to overcome. “The caucuses are working together to make sure that the party retains or brings back the glory it has lost. “We lost about seven states in the last general election and we will work to get them back and even add more in the spirit of togetherness. “APC is a ruling party. Whatever happens to the party will affect other parties. Every party has its challenge, but the magnitude differs. “The bigger the party, the bigger the challenge. But we believe in the coming months, we will sort out the challenges,” Yusuf said.