 THE Edo State Government has announced the discharge of 58 COVID-19 patients, who have tested negative for the virus and cleared from the state’s isolation centres to return to their families. The Commissioner for Health, Dr. Patrick Okundia, who made this known to reporters in Benin City yesterday, said the state recorded 11 new confirmed cases, tested at the Irrua Specialist Teaching Hospital (ISTH) laboratory. Okundia said Edo has so far recorded a total of 8350 suspected cases, 1885 confirmed cases, 62 deaths and 1208 discharges, adding that the state has tested over 8759 residents and is contact tracing 4756 others across the state’s 18 local government areas. He commended the sacrifice, resilience and commitment of health workers and other essential workers on the frontlines of the government’s efforts at containing the pandemic. The commissioner further reiterated the need to protect the state’s aged population, urging residents to comply with all guidelines and safety measures to curtail the spread of the virus in the state. The commissioner, who identified screening and testing as essential in the government’s efforts at containing the pandemic urged all citizens to comply with government directives, aimed at ensuring the health and safety of all Edo people. “While the government ramps up efforts to win the war against this common enemy, it is imperative that residents stay at home and observe social distancing guidelines and other precautionary measures against the spread of the disease, including regular handwashing with soap under running water and the use of alcohol-based hand sanitisers. Cover your mouth and nose properly when sneezing and/or coughing. Also yesterday, the Osun State Government, discharged 11 COVID-19 patients from the State’s Treatment and Isolation Centre. Health Commissioner, Dr Rafiu Isamotu, who disclosed this in a statement, also announced the discovery of 4 new COVID-19 cases in the State. Dr Isamotu while appealing to citizens and residents to always observe all the precautionary measures laid down by the State against the spread of the virus, noted that the cases were contacts of previous cases in the State. He also added that with the latest development, the number of confirmed cases in the State, as at July 19 stand at 339 with 175 active cases.