Over the years, Nigeria’s reputation has constantly been dragged in the mud, especially for fraudulent activities and cyber-crimes. Meanwhile, social media has turned out to be the destination of choice for many suspected fraudsters to exhibit and display their ill-gotten wealth for internet users. Many flaunt their wealth, thereby creating a false impression with the aim of deceiving their followers. The likes of Hushpuppi, Mompha, Invictus Obi, Woodberry and many other suspected fraudsters show off their luxurious lifestyles with expensive vehicles, meals with celebrities and spread pictures of their glamorous state-of-the-art homes on social media. Here are few things to know about these suspected fraudsters and how they flaunt their wealth on social media platforms: Mompha  Ismaila Mustapha‘s style of flamboyance cannot go unnoticed especially on Instagram. Mompha, as he is popularly called, shows off fleets of luxury cars, designer wears and a host stupendously expensive item. However, Mompha was arrested on Friday, 18 October 2019 by the EFCC at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport Abuja while he was on his way to Dubai.  EFCC also added that Mompha camouflages as a bureau de change operator and used his firm-Ismalob Global Investments Limited-to launder about N14 billion. Invictus Obi  Obinwanne Okeke aka Invictus Obi, the CEO of Invictus was arrested between the 2nd and 6th of August, 2019 by the FBI for conspiracy to commit computer fraud and wire fraud. He was accused of receiving $11 million (N3.9 billion) under false pretense.  The FBI opened their investigation in July of 2018, which led them to Okeke who was about to leave the US when he was arrested. In 2016, he was named in the Forbes’ “30 under 30” list which profiles young, up-and-coming entrepreneurs under the age of 30. Hushpuppi  The 38-year-old — whose real name is Raymond Abbas — was arrested on June 10, alongside 11 Nigerians for alleged crimes committed outside the UAE, including money laundering, cyber fraud, hacking, impersonation, scamming individuals, banking fraud and identity theft. His Instagram page, which boasts of over 2.4 million followers, consists of posts of him posing all over the world with luxury bags, a fleet of Rolls Royce’s, private jets, helicopters, yachts, posh watches and also chilling in five star hotels.  Abass, who has been accused of cyber-fraud in Europe, America and Nigeria, had once told his followers that he posts about his luxury life to inspire others to make more of their lives.