It has been quite a while since any-one asked me about itchy palms and feet. One gentleman did last week. He said in  a cell phone text message: “I went through a terrible experience of itching palm and feet till 10pm yesterday night. Damatol, an hair cream,is what I continued to rub since it started. As I applied the severity reduced but I could not sleep at all. I had a similar experience four years ago but it was limited to my feet.I drank honey and so many other harbal preparations but I slept from about 3am to about 6am. Then,I panicked. When it started,I took a broom and used the bottom to scratch. And when it became unbearable,I  raised an alarm. “I never experienced anything near it till this time. I am not diabetic”.. Comments A lucky man, he is. For  diabetes is often one of the major players in this condition. If he was diabetic, the itch  may suggest peripripheral nerve damage  due to blood circulation impairment and glycation, a process through which glucose molecules become poisonous to  protein and fat molecles and damage them. There are some other underlying conditions to supect.  This may include liver and kidney insufficiencies. In sweaty palms and feet, for example, it is often assumed that the organs of elimination are suboptimal in their work and have  shelved some work- load on the skin and the extremeties. An Organic coffee enema may open up the liver to eliminate some toxins through the intestine and relieve the skin,and there by the palms and feet,of extra work load which may cause irritation and itchy. Chanka Piedra is a good herb for supporting liver and kidney functions. Danieli helps the liver even when there have been some alchol-related damage.Carqueja Clears out the liver. Milkthistle and Jerusalem Artichoke are great protectors of the liver against toxin damaged.Bitters are great liver stimulators as well. That reminds me that my household must start the day today,last day of June 2020,with Aloe vera barbadensis juice drink. Other possible causes of itchy palms and feet may be atopic eczema, which may respond to Chickweed, nerve disorders, which nervines or  nerve herbs   may check, and allergies of all sorts.Stinging nettle, like dead nettle, are good for allergies. We cannot rule out the dehydration of these parts of these body. Thus, moisturizers should help. I do not think we can rule out fungal infections. When I notice scales on any foot,   I massage the foot  with onion juice and leave it on overnight. Calamine is good for this condition. And guess what?what make calamine to work on the bodies of children with measles is Zinc. So, why not take 15 to 60mg of Zinc in devided doses two or  three times a day on empty stomach for about one week? Why not also dissolve Zinc in water or a carrier  essential oil such as Olive oil or coconut oil and rub into the affected part. Coconut oil is bless with lauric acid which clear nappy rashes and kills intestinal germs apart from it well reported support in HIV and  Cancer therapies.Sometimes, though, I do essential oil massage, using anti microbials such as clove oil, Golden seal oil , oregano oil e.t.c.  Some people go for Cider Vinegar. Others use Baking soda to paste foot and palm. I have no comments on traditional beliefs that itchy palms suggest the sufferer would soon come by some money or fortune.