There was mild drama on Monday as loyalists of former Governor Ayo Fayose in the Ekiti chapter of the People’s Democractic Party(PDP) were enmeshed in alleged secret oath-taking scandal. In a viral video circulated on Facebook, WhatsApp, Youtube and other social media platforms, the PDP’s ward executives in Ijero Council Area of Ekiti were subjected to what appeared to be oath-taking. The Nation gathered the move was to prevent some of the party executives from shifting allegiance to Senator Biodun Olujimi’s repositioning group. Ekiti PDP has been polarised into two factions over leadership tussle between Fayose and Olujimi. The wards executives, in the video, which lasts five minutes and two seconds, pledged unflinching allegiance to Fayose and laid curses on themselves should they by any means betray him. In the video, each party executive, after mentioning their names, declared that: “If I betray Osokole Ayo Fayose, may the ground swallow me.” Some of the notable personalities in the clandestine oath-taking ceremony were former PDP chairman in the state, Chief Bola Olu-Ojo; former House Assembly member Hon Dayo Akinleye Maxima and Mr Mike Adeosun. Others were: Mr Segun Ademile, Mr Aniyikaye Michael Ayo, Mr Olayiwola Oderinde, Princess Oriade Adefunke, Mr Ayo Komolafe, Mr Michael Ojo and Mrs. Yemisi Fajuyi. Also seen in the video were Mr Taye Olusile, Osalusi Niyi (Youth Leader), Oni Dada, Wale Owoeye, Dele Mackurly, Mr Abiodun Olu, Kehinde Agbede, Olu Asiwaju, Adeola Adebayo, Kayode Olaleye and others. A party source confided in The Nation the party leaders were coerced into the oath-taking with financial inducement. Reacting to the video, former Ekiti PDP chairman, Chief Olu-Ojo, denied indulging in any secret oath, describing the allegation as “puerile and malicious”. Dismissing the oath-taking allegation as mere conjectures and handiwork of some ‘renegades’ in Ekiti PDP, Olu-ojo said: “It was not oath-taking but affirmation of loyalty to our leader Fayose”. “There was nothing secret. It was open meeting. It was not an oath-taking because in the course of activities there was no Bible, Quran, iron, blood and other objects to swear with. “It was an individual opinion. Nobody repeated anything after me. Everybody stated whatever they wanted to say on his or her own accord. There was no special language while reading. It was individual words that were used. And we were making their pledges in the manner which is an affirmation.” Reacting to the alleged oath-taking, Fayose, who spoke through his media aide, Mr Lere Olayinka, also denied allegation saying” he never coerced anybody to take oath”. “Did you see Fayose in that video? Did you see any object like Bible, Quran, iron, if no, how does that amount to oath – taking. “When people gathered to express their allegiance to their leader, how does that amount to oath – taking? I can tell you that the video was not leaked, it was released by one of the people there. If they have done something wrong, would they have released it? ” We have seen picture of Chris Ngige in Okija shrine, did you see those people in the shrine performing rituals? There are more important issues in the country than what happened at Ijero Local Government.”