   The Nigeria Institute of Building (NIOB), in a webinar workshop Monday addressed critical issues to curb building collapse. They stated that the panacea for collapsed building in the country will include critical knowledge and practice areas in foundation design and construction, structural analysis and software application in the design of building. NIOB president, Kunle Awobodu said buildings collapse as a result of faulty structural system,   faulty design of concrete mix and field applications. He called for synergy between the professionals in the sector to stimulate the growth of the sector and check building failures. The Chairman of the Council of Registered Builders of Nigeria (CORBON), Professor Kabir Bala, who is also the Vice Chancellor of Ahmadu Bello University, noted that the issue of building collapse in Nigeria continues to be a concern for builders and other professionals, underscoring the need to continue to update  knowledge in order to fully maintain best practices. A past President of the Nigerian Institution of Structural Engineers, Dr Victor Oyenuga, called for the Nigerian Annex to the Eurocode for structural design. He equally called on academic and research institutions to investigate the engineering properties of local stones in Nigeria especially in the South Eastern states adding that this would be useful to guide design of concrete mixes and corresponding construction. A past senior National Vice President of the Australian Institute of Building and an advisory board member of the South African Council of Construction Managers and Project Managers, Graham Teede, regaled the audience with various types of foundation and approaches to handling them. He indicated the readiness for further collaboration between the Australian Institute of Building and the NIOB for greater efficiency and improved performance in the Nigerian building industry. An associate Professor in the Department of Construction Economics and Management, University of Capetown,  Abimbola Windapo, cited examples from South Africa and  called for the mandatory use of documents  such as construction methodology, prepared by professional builders,  for managing the building construction process. She also called for procurement methods that integrate the inputs of design and construction professionals from the design and planning stages for public projects. The Managing Director of Ove  Arup & Partners Nigeria Limited and a past president of the Nigerian Institution of Structural Engineers , Kunle Adebajo, emphasised the need for team work to realise the building project. He highlighted some areas of interest  or concern during construction of buildings on site. An expert in precast and ready mix concrete who is also the Technical Manager/Team Lead for Lafarge Concrete Business Unit, Tope Ilusanmi, explained their various concrete mix solutions. An Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, Bayero University, Kano, Abdussamad Ismail, highlighted concepts of foundation design while Dr Babatunde Olawuyi, an expert in concrete mix design and  a Senior Lecturer in the Department of Building, Federal University of Technology, Minna explained the principles and fundamentals of concrete mix design. The workshop reiterated that registered builders are the professionals empowered by training and law to manage building production processes in Nigeria and thus need to  remain abreast of fundamental principles of mechanics and other principles of science and technology and their applications. The workshop further called on the Nigerian government to revive its steel industry for production of standard steel inputs such as reinforcement and steel formworks for construction. The two day event ended with workshop participants calling for more synergy between the structural engineer and the builder who are both saddled with the responsibility for the stability of buildings on the one hand and increased collaboration among built environment professionals, on the other hand, for the benefit of the society. 