The Jafojo Family of Ikeja, Agege and Ile-Ife has mourned the death of Second Republic Governor Mohammed Goni of Borno State. It described the deceased politician as a progressive, who worked for the socio-economic and political development of the Northeast state. The family noted that Goni interacted politically beyond the Northern region, adding that he was fond of comparing notes with his progressive brethren in the South. The interaction, said the family, resulted in the support given to the Borno progressives who resisted the move seize the citizenship of Alhaji Shugaba, majority leader of House of Assembly. According to the family, Goni and Second Republic Deputy Governor Rafiu Jafojo shared the same vision and dreams about the emancipation of the poor. The family recalled that many of his policies and programmes were people-oriented, despite the obvious financial constraints that confronted his administration. The family, in a statement by Jafojo’s son, Prince Wale, said Jafojo and Goni became asociates and friends united by a greater vision for a new Nigeria under the banner of the Progressive Party Alliance (PPA) He said the alliance held the promise of transforming Nigeria through the installation of a masses-driven, rational leadership at the centre. However, he lamented that the PPA floundered because of irreconcilable differences over the choice of the presidential candidate. The younger Jafojo said Goni later witnessed the product of greater progressive alliance, which catapulted progressive leaders to power in 2015. Prince Jafojo described the former governor as an incorruptible politician who was above board in his public dealings. He paid tribute to him as a selfless leader, focussed and efficient administrator, dependable actor and consistent Democrat who believed in the temple of justice as the last hope of the common man. Prince Jafojo said the worth of Goni cannot be assessed by wealth and mansions, but by his spartan life, devotion to principle, apathy to graft and commitment to the welfare of the masses. Urging the current crop of politicians to emulate him, he said Goni played a politics of ideology, principle and service to the people. He added: “He was very close to our father, his progressive colleague and friend, the late Alhaji Rafiu Jafojo, former deputy governor of Lagos State during the Jakande Administration. The friendship did  not collapse with the end of the Second Republic. He was a decent politician and a role model.”