The fear of further spread of the COVID-19 pandemic has heightened following refusal by 2,430 people, who tested positive, to report at the isolation camp or present themselves for treatment. In a series of tweets at the weekend, Lagos State Commissioner for Health Prof. Akin Abayomi said: “Two thousand four hundred and thirty active cases in the communities are yet to turn up for admission in care centres, either due to fear of stigmatisation or preference for home care treatment.” The commissioner added that 42,348 tests had been conducted in the state till date, of which 10,926 turned out positive. “Of the confirmed cases 1,695 patients have since been discharged from care centres following full recovery. “Six thousand two hundred and fifty-nine of the cases monitored in communities by #COVID19 Lagos response team have either fully recovered or positively responding to treatments. He added: “As at July 3, the number of COVID-19-related deaths in Lagos State had risen to 177.” Lagos is the epicentre of the pandemic in the country. Besides, 11 of the 20 local governments in the state are among the 18 local governments across the country carrying over 60 per cent of the cases. Prof. Abayomi admonished Lagosian that the time to take responsibility is now. He urged residents to observe physical distancing and regularly wash their hands. Abayomi also advised residents to stay at home when unnecessary to go out, adding that they should wear face masks when going out to reduce the risk of infection. The state has criminalised non-wearing of face masks from this week, according to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. In a statement on Sunday, he said: “Remember, it is now a criminal offence in Lagos State to go out without using a facemask. Let’s continue to adhere strictly to all public advisories given by government #ForACOVID19FreeLagos”. He also announced the discharge of 45 patients — 18 female and 27 male including four foreign nationals from Isolation facilities to reunite with the society. The patients; 19 from Eti-Osa (LandMark) 11 from Onikan and 15 from LUTH Isolation Centres were discharged after full recovery and testing negative to COVID19. “This brings to 1740, the number of #COVID19 confirmed cases that have been successfully managed and discharged from our isolation facilities,” he explained. Edo discharges 122 Edo State Government has discharged 122 patients from its isolation centres, while 87 new cases were reported. Commissioner for Health, Dr. Patrick Okundia, said the state had recorded 1353 cases of the virus. He said: “We have recorded 87 new confirmed cases, with 31 cases reported at the Irrua Specialist Teaching Hospital (ISTH) and 56 cases at the University of Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH). “We have made tremendous progress in the management of the virus, as 122 patients have been  discharged from our isolation centres, bringing the total number of discharges to 718.” He noted that a total 6300 suspected cases have been reported, with 47 deaths. Osun record two deaths The Osun Government at the weekend also recorded two Coronavirus-related deaths and recorded 14 new cases, Commissioner for Health Dr. Rafiu Isamotu said on Sunday in Osogbo. Isamotu said four patients had been discharged from the isolation and treatment centre in the state after they tested negative to the virus. The commissioner said the new cases were discovered, following contact tracing of previous confirmed cases. He noted that with the new cases recorded, the number of confirmed cases in the state had risen to 165 with 95 active cases. “We have 165 confirmed cases, out of which the state has successfully treated and discharged 63 patients while seven deaths have been recorded,” Dr. Isamotu said. He appealed to residents to always observe all the precautionary measures laid down by the state government against the spread of the virus. COVDI-19 panel member dies in Benue Deputy Vice chancellor (DVC) Administration, of the Benue State University (BSU) Professor Godwin Ior Achinge has died of complications arising from COVID-19. Professor Achinge, who was the Vice chairman of the Benue State Emergency Committee on COVID 19 died in Jos, Plateau state on Sunday, it was learnt on Sunday. His death came 24 hours after Governor Ortom  announced that apart from his wife , Eunice,who tested positive ,Professor Achinge was also infected with the virus . News of his death sent shock waves into the spines of many especially the COVID 19 Committee and Benue State University Community. Those who wrote condolence messages on his facebook page described him as a perfect gentleman and easy going. Others described him as being instrumental to the success of fight against the spread of  COVID 19  in Benue  state.