Welcome to the concluding part of this teaching! I hope you were blessed by last week teaching. This week, we shall focus on: Kingdom Advancement Prayer: Every Believer’s Responsibility! From Scriptures, we discovered that Kingdom advancement prayer is a commandment. As it is written, After this manner therefore pray ye: Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven (Matthew 6:9-10). Also, we must understand that the prayer altar is the sharpest of all sickles of harvest with capacity to birth a nation at once. The Bible records, Before she travailed, she brought forth; before her pain came, she was delivered of a man child. Who hath heard such a thing? who hath seen such things? Shall the earth be made to bring forth in one day? or shall a nation be born at once? for as soon as Zion travailed, she brought forth her children (Isaiah 66:7-8). Furthermore, we saw how on mount Carmel, the whole of Israel exclaimed, The LORD, he [is] the God; the LORD, he [is] the God through the prayer ministry of Elijah (1 Kings 18:39; see also James 5:17). That was how a whole nation bowed to the effectual fervent prayer of a man. Also, when Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego came out of the fire, the king passed a decree saying, …That every people, nation, and language, which speak any thing amiss against the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego, shall be cut in pieces, and their houses shall be made a dunghill: because there is no other God that can deliver after this sort. Then the king promoted Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego, in the province of Babylon (Daniel 3:29-30; see also Daniel 6:10). We also saw that the Apostles were constantly in prayers and they responded to the threats of the people with prayers. The Bible says, And now, Lord, behold their threatenings: and grant unto thy servants, that with all boldness they may speak thy word (Acts 4:29). We saw them gathered together in Solomon’s porch praying (Acts 5:12, 14, 6:4, 7). So, Kingdom advancement prayers will keep on advancing the engaging believer until He sets us above all nations of the earth. It is also important to know that the multitudes drawn into the Kingdom by prayer will always require prayer to see them established in the faith. As it is written, Epaphras, who is one of you, a servant of Christ, saluteth you, always labouring fervently for you in prayers, that ye may stand perfect and complete in all the will of God (Colossians 4:12; see also Galatians 4:19). Prayer will bring them in and it will also keep them established. Moreover, we discovered from the testimony of the Apostles that nothing establishes a believer in the faith like Word encounters and for the Word to keep flowing, we have to keep praying. It is written, Finally, brethren, pray for us, that the word of the Lord may have free course, and be glorified, even as it is with you (2 Thessalonians 3:1; see also John 6:68). Thus, prayer is what releases the Word and the Word is what establishes the saints (Ephesians 6:18). Furthermore, church growth will require prayer forever; the church cannot keep growing until the saints keep praying. So, we can only keep the church growing by praying. Remember, it is not the length of our prayer but the fervency of engagement. What is in Praying Kingdom Advancement Prayer for us? In summary, to be a full partaker of these blessings of stewardship, Kingdom advancement prayer must be our priority and lifestyle. But you cannot do that if you are not born again. Are you born again? If you are not, this is an opportunity to do so. Simply say the following prayer: Lord Jesus, I come to You today. I am a sinner. Forgive me of my sins. Cleanse me with Your precious Blood. Today, I accept You as my Lord and personal Saviour. Thank You Jesus for saving me! Now, I know I am born again! For further reading, get my books: Walking in Wisdom, The Wisdom that Works and All you Need to have all your Needs Met. I invite you to fellowship with us at the Faith Tabernacle, Canaanland, Ota, the covenant home of Winners. We have three services on Sundays, holding at 6:00 a.m., 7:50 a.m., and 9:40 a.m. respectively. However, due to the restrictions, you can join our live services via Facebook: David Oyedepo Ministries International, Twitter: @Davidoyedepomin, Instagram: davidoyedepomin, YouTube: Domi Stream, Hebron 95.9 FM, Winners World App, Impact Africa TV (on Startimes and NigComSat), Domi Radio and via the Church Satellite. I know this teaching has blessed you. Write and share your testimony with me through: Faith Tabernacle, Canaanland, Ota, P.M.B. 21688, Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria, call 01-4548070, 01-4548280, or E-mail: dphprints@gmail.com.