 An Information communications technology (ICT) firm, HiiT,  said it has set aside N20million cash for scholarships to interested students at the tertiary education level, designed to support students and in line with the Federal Government COVID-19 economic palliatives. It said it is a demonstration of its resolve to support various governments’ initiates towards moderating the effect of the pandemic on the youths who are currently idling away at home, to build ICT skills that are in global demand from home, and earn income. The Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Kayode Shobajo, who disclosed the gesture to reporters advised interested students to visit: www.hiit.ng/scholarship and apply for the scholarship by completing the scholarship application form. He said the courses on offer include digital marketing, web design, digital literacy, Cisco Certified Network Associate, Python programming among others. Shobajo said unlike most other online training platforms, the training offers instructor-led training with other training methods including live interactive classes, videos, slides, whiteboards and simulation labs to impact  IT skills that are in huge demands by employers. “The teaching time and students’ interaction time mix are optimised to ensure the best online learning outcome for our cultural environment. Our instructors are highly skilled and well equipped to deliver lectures from their homes or anywhere they are comfortable. With the online arrangement, government lockdown will not disturb our classes,” Shobajo said, adding that students can also gain access to the recorded classes at their own time from anywhere in the world. Speaking further about some of the courses on offer, Shobajo said digital marketing enables students gain comprehensive understanding of all major digital marketing channels used today as well as create, launch, and analyse campaigns across a multitude of platforms, including Facebook ads, Google Ads, Google Analytics, and more. “Digital Marketing has become an integral part of marketing budgets and will soon overtake all other traditional channels of Marketing. With the demand for digital marketers outweighing the supply, professionals skilled in digital strategy, consumer behaviour, content distribution, and social media are in high demand. This course aims to bridge that gap and create industry-ready Digital Marketers,” Shobajo said. On Web Design, Shobajo said with more communication and commerce being conducted online than ever before, the web provides incredible opportunities for Web Designers. At the end of the course, graduates of web design will play a central role in building dynamic websites and applications that deliver content in a variety of formats for multiple devices for organisations. The course is designed to equip participants with the technical knowledge and skills to create well-designed websites in terms of aesthetics, using today’s modern web design tools. Python, on the other hand, is a powerful general-purpose programming language. It is used in Web Development, Data Science, creating software prototypes, and so on. It has simple easy-to-use syntax. Students will learn the basics of Python, then move on to acquire skills on how to develop Web applications using the Django framework, Shobajo added. The course also covers the basics of creating basic applications using the model-view-controller (MVC) design pattern, as well as more advanced topics such as Administration, Session Management and Authentication. According to Shobajo, HiiT has graduated over 50,000 students at its existing Training Centres located in Lagos, Abuja, Kano and Ibadan over the past 24 years. 