The Ekiti State Government has begun commenced recruitment of personnels into its State Security Network also known as Amotekun corps. Governor Kayode Fayemi had in March signed into law the bill backing the establishment of the network aimed at ending the scourge of kidnappings, killings and other heinous crimes in the state. The Commander of the Amotekun Corps, Brig- General Joe Komolafe (Rtd), who disclosed this on Wednesday while addressing newsmen in Ado-Ekiti, said the forms are free for all eligible residents in the state. He urged interested residents in the state between 18 to 60 with educational qualification from the minimum Primary School leaving certificate to apply online. Komolafe urged interested applicants to download the application form online at www.amotekun.ekitistate.gov.ng and get endorsement letters from their traditional rulers affirming their indigeneship status. The Corps Commander explained that the process would be devoid of politics and any form of inducement, saying best and most suitable applicants would be enlisted for the security network. He added that he got the mandate of the governor to supervise the network due to his proven track records and integrity, calling on politicians to steer clear of the recruitment process. He said, ” We have started the recruitment process and we call on our people who are interested in being part of Amotekun to go online at www.amotekun.ekitistate.gov.ng and apply. The instructions are there I want to say that every one that will work in this corps will be someone who has not involve himself or herself in any form of crimes or unworthy act. ” Our traditional rulers will play a key role in this regard as these applicants will need attestation letter from them to confirm whether they are from the community and never involved in any form of criminality. ” There won’t be room for politicians in this regard and the governor has told me that he will give me free hand to do this very important job and achieve the desire results of securing Ekiti. I won’t allow any politician to compromise the standard set for the security outfit and I can assure you that we will not allow politics to derail us.” Komolafe noted that the establishment of Amotekun was a child of necessity to check mate the scourge of insecurities ravaging south west states, assuring residents that the corps would be above board in securing the state. He, however, called on residents to support the security outfit in their communities with accurate and timely information, noting , ” this is our own security operation and it must not fail.”