 DESPITE the halt in various activities as a result of restrictions necessitated by the COVID-19 pandemic, two new programmes, ‘Owambe Saturday’ and ‘Turn Up Friday,’ are giving respite. Though clubs are shut down and the state governments prohibit gathering of more than 20 people or any social gathering, content creators have worked on giving respite to the yearning public that consistently complain of boredom while observing the stay at home guideline. Just as the pandemic has given rise to various innovations that seem to have become the new normal, the content providers at Africa Magic have developed two contents in partnership with top brands to ensure the public continue to have a feel of social gathering while staying at home. The two new programmes, Owambe Saturday’ and ‘Turn Up Friday,’ give television audience the opportunity to have a feel of the Friday night club groove as well as the Saturday parties, widely referred to as Owambe in Lagos, Nigeria. Since the programmes berthed, night club goers and Owambe lovers can now relieve memories of enjoying good music and social gathering. The ‘Turn Up Friday’ experience berthed first on Africa Magic in collaboration with Pepsi and with the current reception from the viewing audience, it might soon be adopted by other content creators. Tagged ‘Turn Up Friday With Pepsi,’ the show has brought back the clubbing experience for club goers. The show kicked off on Friday, May 15 and has continued to get viewership every week in the last six weeks. The three-hour-long show is expected to last for a period of 10 weeks. With the turn up Friday with Pepsi show, top Disc Jockeys that include DJ Obi, DJ Lambo, DJ Neptune, DJ Sose, DJ Sensei Lo,DJ Kentalky, DJ Consequence and DJ Alatika have continued to serenade TV audience week in, week out. Hosted by the On Air Personality, who is widely refered to the Energy gad, Do2tun, the show is injected with adrenalin every week as he keeps the audience pumped up and entertained. Do2tun not only serenade the audience with his dance moves, the show allows a live experience videos from viewers, which he talks about. The Owambe Saturday groove is the programme that caters for the weekend social gatherings which is synonymous with Africans – most especially Nigerians. Again, Africa Magic partnered with Indomie Noodles to offer its viewers an authentic African experience at home every Saturday. The show kicked off on May  30 and has, in one month, garnered so much viewership. Also slated to run 10 weeks, Owambe Saturday occupies a three-hour-long live broadcast. Over the last four weeks, viewers have had high levels of energetic performances by various local live bands such as Playrite band, Rockers Band, Pleasant Sound Band, Avis Rhythm Crew, and D Kencords Band. For this show, awarding-winning Radio host and actor, Steve ‘Yaw’ Onu, sits as the host while bringing on his fun, exciting and engaging personality to enliven the show. Already, viewers look forward to getting entertained every Saturday night with the synergy between the show host and the band. And just like the Friday night Turn Up, viewers are given the opportunity to share video clips of them having a good time to the live band music via social media platforms. Speaking on the programmes, Channel Director, Africa Magic, Wangi Mba-Uzoukwu says, “We are pleased to announce Owambe Saturday and Turn Up Friday, which serve as some of our initiatives to ensure that our viewers both young and old remain entertained at home during the current restrictions on public gathering. This brand-new shows will bringing exhilarating live music performances to their TV screens. AM Owambe Saturday will set the stage in the living rooms of our viewers, where they can groove to the best of live bands every Saturday night while Turn Up Friday will fill the vacumm of Friday night clubbing.”