Micheal Obetoh writes on the factors that will guarantee a hitch-free governorship election in Edo State on September 19. Keen political observers will acknowledge the fact that beating the drum of war in a contest as the current one in Edo State is equal to blowing on a spark to ignite a politically tensed system. Yet, an evil tongue will go ahead to do so, not minding the consequences. The governor and his deputy left the All Progressives Congress (APC) on frivolous and trumped up claims to the other party whose presidential candidate in the 2015 general election, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, repeatedly said and demonstrated that his political ambition is not worth the blood of anyone. When he has continued to blame his former godfather, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, of overbearing demands, it was ordinarily expected that Governor Godwin Obaseki and Philip Shaibu, his deputy, would have dropped their toga of violence and toed the path of non-violent or peaceful campaigns like Dr. Jonathan, who though a rare patriot, lost the 2015 elections to President Muhammadu Buhari. Some forebears A typical example is the experience of former President Jonathan and his wife, Patience, who were maligned, out rightly mocked and called unprintable names. Yet, they did not order the arrest or intimidation of anybody. President Buhari has also been demonised in many quarters. Some even called him Jibrill of Sudan while others labeled him ‘Baba go slow’. Some critics even went as far as saying President Buhari was cloned. Despite all that, heaven did not fall. In the midst of such demonisation and strong insult on the leaders, they never regressed into highhandedness or tyranny as we see in Edo State today. United States President Donald Trump has been facing stiff opposition from various sides, both local and international. He is now about the most criticized American President. But, in the expected character of a democrat like Buhari and Jonathan, Trump has not witch hunt or harasses any opposing view to his policies and administration. Tyranny as  being experienced in Edo State under Obaseki has no place in any democratic establishment. Is Edo State been blessed or cursed with incarcerated leadership? Your guess is as good as mine. The unfortunate keeps happening: But, the body language and conduct of the governor and his deputy in the face of the momentous gathering of political activities, leaves much to be desired of a team that is confident of winning the September 9 governorship election in the once peaceful state. In one breath, Obaseki claims wide spread acceptability and admiration of most electorate to the extent that he brags of defeating Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu of the APC with a landslide. On the other hand, he is seen sponsoring violent attacks and hounding perceived opponents. That alone is an indication of a drowning contestant who is unsure of himself even in a state where he presides as the chief security officer. Recent events have shown that Obaseki is not only running his government based on lies, he is also hounding opponents who refuse to support his government and reelection bid. Obaseki and his deputy have been making several attempts to intimidate supporters of Pastor Ize-Iyamu and other respected APC supporters, including Captain Hosa Okunbor. The lastest of such unprovoked onslaught on his opponents took place at the weekend when supporters of Obaseki launched a violent attack on APC supports near the palace of the Oba of Benin, leaving several persons injured. It happened when PDP governors, led by the Chairman of the PDP Campaign Council, Governor Nyesom Wike, visited the Oba of Benin. His visitors who were in the state to flag off his campaign watched as many APC members and those believed to be opposed to his reelection were manhandled. The thugs unleashed violence on APC supporters without provocations. He should take a cue from other political leaders across party lines and know that this is not a bloodbath politics. It is a civil contest and should be moderated to that extent, with lots of decorum. Ugly incident Thugs attacked the people as retatiation for their public booing. Instead of doing introspection on his public rejection at the palace of the first class Oba, Obaseki and Shaibu loosed their attack dogs on innocent APC supporters who were on a peaceful campaign in the metropolis. Obaseki and his loyalists allegedly destroyed their own bill-boards at different locations in the state as a gimmick to deflect responsibility and get a reprieve for the alleged organised destruction of APC billboards after the party filed a petition with the police and other relevant agencies. Like Edo State Media Campaign Council of the APC rightly noted, Obaseki has displayed the same traits of intolerance and penchant for violence that made the people of Edo State unanimously reject him. That is unbecoming of a governor who was elected to protect and secure lives and properties of Edo people, irrespective of party affiliation. “Booed by the people at the entrance of the palace of our great Oba of Benin for handing the state to the PDP tax collectors, who are unconscionably feasting on our collective patrimony, PDP as an act of revenge, instructed the thugs to attack the people with dangerous arms,” the APC campaign council said. For a governor that prides himself as a gentleman, it would be better if he has responded to the issues rather than attacking opposition members. If this can happen now, what should we expect when Obaseki is allowed to occupy the leadership position of the state in September? In a civil contest as the one that is underway in Edo State, everyone must shun violence. The new twist It was Pastor Ize-Iyamu, the leading candidate in the governorship race, that assured residents of Edo State of a violence-free election while calling on the PDP, to shun provocative acts and campaign based on issues, not insults and name-calling. Ordinarily, many people expected Obaseki and his co-travellers to learn from that and restrict themselves to issues-based campaigns devoid of violence and name calling, and a campaign of calumny based on things non-beneficial to the people of the State. “We have said that we want this election to be issue-based. We don’t want to resort to name-calling and insults. We want to focus on our SIMPLE agenda. I can assure you that we as a party will do everything to avoid violence,” Ize-Iyamu maintained. However, the people of Edo State are left to ponder and decide  that ‘the intolerable actions witnessed in the last four years and perceived as a tyranny by indigenes should not be welcomed the second time. Otherwise, the state’s fortunes may rubble to sand dust at the end of the day.’ We are wiser now. Fool us the first time – we are ignorant, but no room to whisk us again as we have brought to the fore a better replacement come September election.