 Senate President Ahmad Lawan has commiserated with the family, friends and political associates of Pa Ayorinde Fasanmi, the leader of Yoruba socio-cultural and political association. Lawan, in a statement by his Special Adviser (Media), Ola Awoniyi, also condoled with the government and people of Ekiti State and the Yoruba nation in general over the demise of a leader who throughout his life was committed to the cause of his people and Nigeria. The Senate President said the late elder statesman made immense contributions to nation-building as a two-time parliamentarian, public office holder and political party leader. Lawan said Nigerians would miss Pa Fasanmi’s forthrightness, consistency, wise counsel and wealth of experience. The Senate President prayed God to grant the soul of the deceased perfect peace and grant those that he left behind the fortitude to bear his loss. Gbajabiamila mourns Pa Fasanmi’s passing House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila has expressed sadness over the death of the leader of the Yoruba socio-cultural group, Afenifere, Pa Ayo Fasanmi. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, the Speaker said though the demise of the late patriot would be felt by the nation, the progressives and his family, solace would be taken in the fact that his footprints have been firmly entrenched in the sand of time. The Speaker noted that Pa Fasanmi’s passionate quest for democracy and good governance saw him leave Pharmacy to join politics and later became the leader of the Yoruba socio-cultural group, Afenifere. Gbajabiamila said: “As a federal lawmaker at the national level, first as a member of the House of Representatives and later a Senator, Pa Fasanmi came across as a symbol of humility, selflessness and integrity. These attributes have continued to inspire lawmakers across the country. “It is my prayer that his soul rests in perfect peace, and may God give those he left behind the fortitude to bear the loss.” Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has expressed sadness over the death of an elder statesman and leader of Yoruba socio-cultural group Afenifere, Senator Ayo Fasanmi. In a condolence message by his Chief Press Secretary, Gboyega Akosile, Sanwo-Olu described the late Pa Fasanmi as a “great nationalist, passionate leader and humility personified.” Sanwo-Olu, who also described the late Pa Fasanmi as a complete gentleman and selfless leader, said he contributed immensely to the development of the Southwest region and Nigeria. “Pa Fasanmi was an exemplary leader who spent the greater part of his life in the service of humanity, particularly the Yoruba course where he contributed to the development of the region. “In the old Western Nigeria, Pa Fasanmi served as a member of the Board of Directors of the Old Western Nigeria Housing Corporation. “He was National President of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria in 1977, elected into the Senate in 1979, and became a member of the House of Representatives in 1983. He also served as a member of the National Constitutional Conference Commission in 1994. “Pa Fasanmi was indeed an icon who will never be forgotten in the history of Nigeria and the Yoruba race. He will surely be missed,” the governor said. The governor went on: “On behalf of my family, the Lagos State Government and people of the state, I want to express my sincere and heartfelt condolences to the immediate family members of the deceased; the government and people of Ekiti and Ondo States over the irreparable loss. “May God give the departed soul eternal rest and the family the fortitude to bear the loss. Adieu, Pa Fasanmi.” Ekiti State Governor Dr Kayode Fayemi described the late Afenifere leader as one of the heroes of democracy being enjoyed in the country today. Dr. Fayemi, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Yinka Oyebode, described Pa Fasanmi as a steadfast Awoist and committed progressive who was a torchbearer for younger progressives in his lifetime. The governor said the death of Fasanmi had robbed Nigeria of one of her most selfless politicians and patriots who demonstrated unalloyed commitment for a better country where justice and equity occupy a pride of place. He noted that Pa Fasanmi was a politician who was consistent with the progressive ideology as demonstrated in his membership of the Action Group, Unity Party of Nigeria, Social Democratic Party, Alliance for Democracy, Action Congress, Action Congress of Nigerian and All Progressives Congress. The Chairman of the Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF) said Ekiti is proud to have produced Fasanmi who served as a parliamentarian at different times in the House of Representatives and the Senate. Fayemi recalled the pivotal role played by Fasanmi as a chieftain of the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO) in the fight to revalidate the June 12, 1993, presidential election won by the late Chief M.K.O. Abiola. He said the late Pa Fasanmi demonstrated courage in his stand against military dictatorship at a time it was very dangerous to dare the most vicious dictatorship in the nation’s history. The governor described Pa Fasanmi as a renowned Pharmacist who made a name in the profession leading to his emergence as the National President of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN) in 1977. “Our highly revered Pa Fasanmi lived a good life, ran a good race and has gone home for a well-deserved rest. “There is no doubt we shall miss his wise counsel, but we are consoled with the fact he lived a good life and left a good legacy. Our prayer is that God will grant him eternal rest and comfort his family,” he said. Also, the Chairman, Senate Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters, Senator Opeyemi Bamidele, described Fasanmi’s death as a colossal loss to the Progressive folds and Nigeria at large. He described the Afenifere leader as an iconic progressive politician with a great penchant for the truthfulness and good governance during his active days. Bamidele stated that Fasanmi’s immeasurable fondness for selfless service delivery and populist approach to governance qualified him as a true a disciple of Awolowo. The lawmaker said Fasanmi would be remembered for being a rallying point for progressive politicians in the Southwest region, saying he had etched his name in gold as a principled individual who believed in fighting for equality and the less privileged. “Baba had lived a worthy life. He lived and died fighting for humanity and the realisation of those lofty ideals of exemplary governance and promotion of the common good for all, regardless of race, class, clan, ethnicity and religious inclinations. “Since the first Republic, he had been a politician of progressive extraction. The fact that he was loyal to Awolowo till the end confirmed his high level of reliability. “He was a partner in every stride taken in the country for the formation of Nationalist movements, Political Parties and Pro-Democracy movements with a focus for humanitarian governance. He was a member of the Action Group, Unity Party of Nigeria, Social Democratic Party and All Progressives Congress where he played active and impactful roles. “I convey my heartfelt condolences to the government and people of Ekiti State, via our governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, Iye-Ekiti and the Fasanmi dynasty on the death of this priceless patriarch.” The Southwest All Progressives Congress (APC) also mourned the passage of Fasanmi. The zonal chapter described his demise as a huge loss to the progressive family in Nigeria. In a statement by the Zonal Publicity Secretary, Chief Karounwi Oladapo, the party said Pa Fasanmi was a very honest and consistent Politician who never flirted from one political ideology to the other. According to the Statement “Senator Ayo Fasanmi kept faith and loyalty with the Chief Obafemi Awolowo led Progressive Parties, ( Action Group, AG and Unity Party of Nigeria, UPN ), the Social Democratic Party, SDP, the Action Congress of Nigeria, ACN and lately, the All Progressives Congress, APC. He never deviated from his commitment to the Social Democratic Principles and Progressive ideals until he breathed his last, on Wednesday, July 29, 2020. He championed the tenets of Afenifere Socio-Political Organization in its original form, as espoused by Chief Obafemi Awolowo and the Action Group of the First Republic. He never had anything to do with the conservatives and reactionary elements in the Nigeria Political Space.” The party noted and recognized Senator Ayo Fasanmi’s presence on the campaign podium with President Muhammadu Buhari during his re-election campaign in 2019. He received, campaigned and made powerful speeches in support of President Buhari at the Ekiti Parapo Pavilion, Ado Ekiti, at an advanced age of 93. This was very unique and remarkable! The South West APC Leaders urged the Federal Government to name a National monument after him, in commemoration and recognition of his innumerable contributions to democracy, good governance and national development. Osun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola has described the death of elder statesman as a big loss to not only the Yoruba race but also Nigeria as a whole. He said the late Pa Fasammi would be greatly missed and remembered for his love for and service to Nigeria and its people. Oyetola, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Ismail Omipidan, commiserated with Pa Fasanmi’s family, the Afenifere Group, the Yoruba race and Nigerians over the loss. The governor said Pa Fasanmi was a great man of honour, progressive politician, and strong advocate of good governance, democratic values and ideals. He further said the late Afenifere leader was a die-hard Awoist and demonstrated this by projecting the principles and legacies of the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo. “Baba’s death is a big loss not only to his family but also to the Yoruba race and Nigeria at large. He will be remembered for his unending love for Nigeria and selfless service to the country and its people. He was always concerned about the welfare of the masses. “He was an astute politician and elder statesman, who was ever seeking to enrich and expand the frontiers of socio-political knowledge, encourage mass political participation, offer selfless service and replicated himself in his teeming followers. “I knew Baba Fasanmi for many years, even before my foray into politics. I saw in him a trained pharmacist, who faithfully transferred the ideals of service to humanity, which his training entails into the larger business of politics. “Through his noble efforts in diverse political struggles, agitation for good governance, and persistent resistance to military rule, bad governments, and administrations, Pa Fasanmi became a beacon of hope and a pillar of light and encouragement to the younger generation of politicians and public administrators,” the governor added. Oyetola prayed to God to grant the soul of Pa Fasanmi eternal rest and give his family the strength to bear his demise. Former Osun State Governor Chief Bisi Akande has said Pa Ayo Fasanmi’s death has made him a political orphan. Chief Akande described the death of Pa Ayo Fasanmi as a great loss to the Yoruba and Nigeria as a whole. In a statement yesterday, Chief Akande said: “I’m suddenly made a political orphan by the passing of Papa Ayo Fasanmi at this point. It is shocking and very painful to me personally because he was my political godfather since he introduced me to Chief Obafemi Awolowo in 1977. “Papa Fasanmi along with his leader Chief Obafemi Awolowo were in the Regional House of Assembly and National House of Representatives during the parliamentary system of government in the Nigerian 1st Republic and he became a Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in the Presidential system of Government in the Second Republic. “We were together in the National Constituent Assembly that wrote the 1979 Constitution for Nigeria. His wealth of experience as a progressive politician is mostly needed now that Nigeria is gradually taking steps towards consolidating democratic norms, hence a big vacuum has been created by his exit. “Those Nigerians who were not born before 1956 would only have the military sense of democracy and may never know good governance unless they were fortunate to have learnt under the tutelage of people of Papa Fasanmi’s political generation. It is significant therefore that the knowledge of the contributions of Fasanmi’s generation to the development of Nigeria become useful for thinking right on how to reposition the problems of Nigeria.” The All Progressives Congress (APC), in a statement yesterday, also mourned the death of the Afenifere leader. The statement by Deputy National Publicity Secretary Yekini Nabena reads: “The Yorubas and indeed the nation at large have lost a father to all, elder statesman, welfarist, second Republic Senator and front line politician whose indelible strides will be forever remembered. “Pa Fasanmi was one of Nigeria’s leading voices who spoke truth to power. In death, the APC celebrates an accomplished man and leader of the front line Yoruba socio-cultural organisation who alongside championing the socio-political interests and preserving the ethnic identity of the Yorubas, was also an advocate of good governance in the country.” The immediate past Governor of Bayelsa state, Chief Henry Seriake Dickson, has commiserated with the Yoruba nation, Pan Yoruba socio cultural group, Afenifere, the All Progressives Congress, (APC), over the demise of Senator Ayo Fasanmi who died on Wednesday at the age 94 in Osogbo, Osun state. Dickson said his demise has created a big vacuum that would be difficult to fill. According to him, “Pa Fasanmi is an astute politician. He is a notable Awoist and founding member of the defunct Unity Party of Nigera (UPN) and Alliance for Democracy, (AD). “He played a significant role in the enthronement of democratic rule in the Country. “It is quite unfortunate that he left when his elderly advice and service is needed in the process of rebuilding our nation.”