 Every crisis presents opportunities and threats to businesses. For the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, its impact on businesses has been devastating, with the  aviation industry shut. The banking sector is also hit, with loan loss expected to escalate as borrowers begin to see the impact of the pandemic on their bottomline. These are extraordinary circumstances. Many economies are already taking unprecedented measures to keep their operations running and protect the health and well-being of their citizenry. One way to address the economic impact of the pandemic is through Eurobond issuances, which are expected to happen in many African economies in the second half of this year. In a report entitled: ‘’SSA Eurobond Market in Second Half -2020: Monetary stimulus to spur market recovery’’, United Capital said despite the COVID-19 pandemic, there is room for new Eurobond issuances in second half of the year. It explained that the issuance  would depend on the level of improvement seen in the external and domestic space in many economies. It added that its optimism is buttressed by the recovery in foreign investors’ appetite for Sub-Saharan Africa  (SSA) Eurobond at the secondary market. “Also, the need for most of the SSA economies to plug sizable budget deficit as well as refinance private debt obligations further adds to our optimism. At the secondary market, we expect interest to be dictated by the level of recoveries in the key export items of each country. In all, our outlook for sustained expansionary monetary policy conditions in advanced economies (especially in U.S and Europe) should create a bullish bias for investing in SSA Eurobonds in second half of 2020,” it said. Early in the year, activities at the primary Eurobond market were business as usual for SSA countries. Gabon opened the year with a $1 billion issuance in January, followed by Ghana with a $3 billion issuance in February. Both auctions were widely oversubscribed with subscription rates of 3.5 times and 4.7 times. At the secondary market, yields on the outstanding and new SSA notes re-priced higher in first quarter-2020, owing to the synchronised risk-off sentiments fuelled by the pandemic and the uncertainties involving the impact that it will have on the economy. However, the large-sized stimulus package unveiled across the developed market and  recovery in economic activities, had since refueled risk-on sentiments by foreign investors, with SSA Eurobond yields declining from their March-2020 highs.