Some chieftains of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Ondo State on Monday in Akure embarked on more protests over alleged manipulation of delegates list for the party’s primary. The Ondo PDP chieftains called for the disqualification of the State Deputy Governor, Hon. Agboola Ajayi and arrest of Mr Kingsley Chinda who served as Secretary of the PDP Ward congresses Electoral Committee. They alleged that over 101 fake delegates were smuggled into the adhoc delegates’ list of the PDP. A former council chairman and PDP chieftain from Okitipupa who spoke on behalf of the protesting chieftains, Hon Bitire Solomon, said the list being paraded would be rejected before the primary scheduled for next week. Bitire insisted that Hon Ajayi must be disqualified for fraudulently injecting 101 fake delegates into the Adhoc delegates list of Ondo State PDP in collusion with Chinda. According to him, “It could be recalled that three days ago while the Electoral panel was collating the results of the ad-hoc delegates Congresses, there were heavy protests by party members who were chanting war songs and raining curses on Ajayi and Chinda at the front of Heritage Hotel in Akure after information filtered in that both of them were tampering with the delegates list.” “Suddenly after the protests, members of the panel disappeared into tin air and thereafter converged in a hotel in Lagos to hatch the evil plot. “As we speak, over 101 names have been injected into the Adhoc delegates list ahead of the PDP primary by Ajayi and Mr Chinda, the Secretary of the panel.” “We are here to call on the leadership of the party to immediately arrest Chinda and disqualify the deputy governor for fraudulently manipulating the delegates list” Also, the Banji Okunomo Campaign Organisation vowed to stop to drag the party to court if the ‘doctored’ list was not replaced by the leadership of the party. Spokesman of the Okunomo Campaign, Mr Akinrinlola Olumide, said all they want was fair play and justice. Chief Press Secretary to Ajayi, Babatope Okeowo, dismissed the allegations and insisted that the protest against his boss was sponsored by the Ondo State Government. Okeowo said it was unfair to call for the disqualification of his boss who has refused to join issues with PDP aspirants.