Ariston, the leading international brand in the Ariston Thermo Group, has unveiled its global campaign, tagged: ‘The Ariston Comfort Challenge’ as part of activities to mark the company’s 90th anniversary. The Ariston Comfort Challenge focused on ensuring thermal comfort could reach anywhere in the world. Through this mission, Ariston has donated a warm shelter to a group of scientists from the University of Copenhagen involved in climate change studies in the remote and icy Island of Disko, in Greenland (Arctic). The Ariston Comfort Zone, an innovative modular home, was shipped to and assembled—for the first time— in Disko Island, Greenland. Disko Island is one of the coldest regions in the world and before this time, it proved near impossible for the scientists to stay on the island for more than a few days due to the harsh weather conditions. While delivering a keynote address during a virtual media parley in Lagos at the weekend, Mr. Gaurav Bisaria, the Director, Central Africa, Ariston Thermo Group, said the company remains committed providing sustainable comfort for everyone. Bisaria noted that the success of the Ariston Comfort Challenge ‘Greenland Mission’ is another proof of the company core value of superior quality of Ariston products, which could be seen in the efficiency of the output of the product even in the extremely weather condition. “The Ariston Comfort Challenge – Greenland Mission” is a campaign that makes us very proud as it testifies to commitment to product quality in the quest of bringing comfort to everyone, even where it seems hard or impossible to find. Our new breed of water heaters introduced into the Nigerian market will help us embrace a completely new and different way to bring our purpose and mission to you,” he said. To achieve its mission, Bisaria noted that the company continuously spends billions on research and development in order to ensure standards and quality of its 8.2 million products sold across 69 countries. Also speaking at the event, a consultant paediatrician, Dr. Ayodele Renner whose presentation was entitled: ‘Hot Water for Life: Health and Comfort: Perspectives from a child expert,’ advocated for safe source as this could ensure sustainable living. The high points of the occasion was the presentation of a six-part documentary that showed the story of the three hero installers and their demanding trip to icy landscapes of Greenland to complete the challenge.