 Liverpool may have won the English Premier League trophy, but there is still plenty to play for with four games remaining in the  2019/2020 season. A coveted top-four spot remains up for grabs with  some eight teams in strong contention for  spots in the money-spinning UEFA Champions League  for the 2020/2021. The novel top-four finish guarantees a place in Europe’s most lucrative club competition but the situation is further complicated by the impending Champions League ban to Manchester City. Should the Citizens’  two-year UEFA ban appeal for a breach of the Financial Fair Play  is upheld on July 30 , Pep Guardiola-led side will slide into fifth-place and automatically missing out of the Champions League spot. Manchester United’s unbeaten Premier League run (before  Thursday’s away game to Aston Villa)has placed them within touching distance of Chelsea and Leicester in the race to make the top four, with Wolves and Arsenal also in the hunt. Meanwhile, a  resurgent Kelechi Iheanacho has been tipped to play a vital role  in Leicester City’s Premier League run-in. Having failed to make a Premier League appearance until December, Iheanacho’s influence in their current position in the table has been significant. The 23-year-old may not be as prolific as Jaime Vardy, who’s the league’s top scorer with 21 goals, but he’s come up trumps for the 2016 league champions too. Iheanacho’s influence since the resumption has been vital to the Foxes hanging on to their European spot. The former Manchester City protégé has scored arguably their two most important goals post-restart, halving the deficit at Everton and scoring the opening strike in tight game vs Crystal Palace at the weekend. Leicester’s run-in is brutally unforgiving. They will be expected to secure a comfortable win against Bournemouth, but otherwise they have nothing but tricky ties. Arsenal away won’t be easy with the Gunners finally back in form, Sheffield United are no walkovers, either. Spurs aren’t great right now but the potential for José Mourinho to force a slip out of Brendan Rodgers with a parked bus is very real. Then they close things out at home to a buoyant United who could clinch a return to the Promised Land with a positive result. Leicester have a monumental task to hold onto their top-four spot. The club most under pressure are third-placed Chelsea on 60 points, one point ahead of fourth placed Leicester. Frank Lampard’s side remains on course for a top-four finish after getting the better of Crystal Palace in a five-goal thriller at Selhurst Park on Wednesday while a Vardy late equaliser gave Leicester City a vital point at Arsenal to keep their Champions League hopes on track. Brendan Rodgers’ side have struggled for form in recent months and had only obtained 12 points from their last 12 league games before a 4-0 win over Aston Villa on Monday got Leicester back in the driving seat for a return to Europe’s elite competition. Frank Lampard’s Chelsea looked to be assured of a Champions League place early on in the season, but a wretched run of form during the winter saw them dragged down into the mire with everyone else. They’ve been lucky that their competitors have really failed to capitalise on their failures, but now they face a tricky run-in of their own to secure their place at next season’s top table. The Blues are expected to beat basement club Norwich but Sheffield United will surely be a tough nut to crack. The main reason the west Londoners’ run-in is hard is how it ends. Their penultimate game of the season sees them go to Anfield, where Liverpool have thus far won every game. After that they close the season out at home against Wolves. The Blues have struggled at the Bridge and Wolves are the ultimate road warriors, so bringing it home is not going to be easy for Frank Lampard. After back-to-back league defeats in January, Manchester United have turned things around and are currently on a 16-match unbeaten run in all competitions, including nine Premier League games . Their £47 million January recruit Bruno Fernandes has been central to the surge in form and it means Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s men are in prime position to make the most of any slip-ups. Leicester City is the only top-four rivals they still have to face, with the majority of their matches against teams in the bottom half. The chasing pack behind them includes Wolverhampton Wolves, Sheffield and Arsenal, who could mathematically sneak into Champions League contention. Wolverhampton Wanderers’ dramatic last minute loss to top four rivals Sheffield United on Wednesday might have put a den to their top four finish. Wolves have no easy games left, but also nothing that stands out as extremely difficult. They will have to battle every single week, but they are more than capable of beating every single opponent. Chelsea are obviously formidable but Wolves love to play on the road so should be right at home at Stamford Bridge. They’re a fair way back, points-wise, but their run-in gives them a chance. Arsenal, lying seventh with 50 points, will take heart from the possibility that Manchester City may yet get banned from the Champions League.