 Those who argue that the 1999 constitution (as amended), is filled with absurdities will point to the impending constitutional crisis in Ondo State as one more proof of the claim. Ondo State has become a kingdom divided amongst its princes, with the governor being in the All Progressive Congress (APC) and the deputy, defecting to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). To make matters worse, the governor has unfortunately been diagnosed as positive to the corona virus disease, otherwise known as COVID-19. In that divided kingdom, Rotimi Akeredolu (SAN), the governor of the state has declared his deputy, Agboola Ajayi, an enemy of the state, and in fact, the greatest threat to the state administration. Yet, by the provision of section 187(1) of the 1999 constitution (as amended), Ajayi is the constitutional alter ego of the governor, the counterpart copy if you like, or indeed the governor’s shadow. Should the governor for any reason, become incapacitated, and unable to perform the functions of his office, the deputy governor, ipso facto, becomes the governor without much ado. Yet, in the words of the Ondo State Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Donald Ojogo, the deputy governor is “the greatest threat to good governance in Ondo State and you can’t attempt to hand over to people like that.” For effect, he added: “Agboola Ajayi is the greatest threat to this government.” But speaking with tongue in cheek, he confirmed: “the deputy has left governance, though he is still in government.” Clearly, the statement attributed to the spokesperson of the Ondo State government is an absurdity qua incongruous, if I may use such expression. But, in fairness to Ojogo, the current situation in Ondo State is a classical instance of a tsetse fly perching on the scrotum. As he rightly stated, while the deputy governor has left governance, he has not left government. But of note, while governance gives allowance for the predilection, the whims and caprices of the official of the state; the legitimacy of a government, the substratum of the office, is predicated on the provisions of the enabling law, in this instance, the 1999 constitution (as amended). In the beginning, section 187(1) of the constitution, says: “In any election to which the foregoing provisions of this part of this chapter relate, candidate for the office of governor of a state shall not be deemed to have been validly nominated for such office unless he nominates another candidate as his associate for his running for the office of governor, who is to occupy the office of deputy governor, and that candidate shall be deemed to have been duly elected to the office of deputy governor if the candidate who nominated him is duly elected as governor in accordance with the said provision.” So, the constitution envisages in the above provision that the deputy governor shall ab inito, be an associate of the governor. Having been elected into office, on the premise that he is nominated by the governor, as his associate, does a deputy governor become an appendage of the governor, existing at the pleasure of the governor, or a constitutional creation, part, but independent of the governor, even though a spare product, which is used to substitute the original, should it become incapacitated to function? Again, let us turn to the constitution. By the provision of section 186, the constitution provides that: “There shall be for each state of the federation a deputy governor.” While in section 190, it says: “Whenever the governor transmits to the speaker of the House of Assembly written declaration that he is proceeding on vacation or that he is otherwise unable to discharge the functions of his office, until he transmits to the speaker of the House of Assembly a written declaration to the contrary such functions shall be discharged by the deputy governor as acting governor.” Section 191(1) of the constitution adumbrates on the constitutional importance of the deputy governor, thus: “The deputy governor of a state shall hold the office of governor of the state if the office of governor becomes vacant by reason of death, resignation, impeachment, permanent incapacity or removal of the governor from office for any other reason in accordance with section 188 or 189 of this constitution.” As many are wont to say, the deputy governor is a spare tyre, but if you have ever been stranded on a lonely stretch of road, without a spare tyre, you will appreciate that spare tyres are of immense value. The importance of the above constitutional imperative were frequently ignored by governors and even presidents, so much so that it nearly upended our fledgling constitutional democracy during the incapacitation of late President Umaru Yar’Adua. Power tasted so sweet that the wife of the late president, in cohort with a cabal in the presidency, sought to appropriate the powers of the president, when President Yar’Adua could no longer perform the functions of his office, the 1999 constitution be damned. Regrettably, while President Yar’Adua could, he refused to obey the clear provision of section 145, of the constitution, which provides mutatis mutandis, similar provision as section 190, with respect to the office of the president. What saved the day was the invocation of reasonableness, succinctly encapsulated as the doctrine of necessity. Since that debacle, the lawmakers have since made necessary amendments to countermand the recalcitrance of a governor or president, by the provisions of section 190(2), in the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (First Alteration) Act. While wishing Governor Rotimi Akeredolu a quick and complete healing from the afflictions of COVID-19, the constitutional imperative is that while going into isolation and treatment, for a disease that has so far beguiled the medical world, he ought to transmit the letter envisaged by section 190 of the 1999 constitution (as amended). But he has ruled out that expectation. Interestingly, while section 186 of the constitution, declares without equivocation that: “There shall be for each state of the federation a deputy governor” section 187(1) envisages that it is the governor who shall nominate “his associate” to that high office. The gaping gap, in the constitution, of what should happen, should the deputy governor, at any stage in the relationship, seize to remain an associate of the governor, puts the constitution on trial. Of course, there are several other aberrations in the 1999 constitution, which make some commentators consider the document a fraud entrusted on Nigerians, by the retreating military junta in 1999. How would the Ondo State constitutional aberration be resolved, should it turn into a debacle, since the governor and his associates, see the deputy governor, as enemy of the state?