The Screening Appeal Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for Ondo State Governorship Primary will on Monday sit to consider the appeal of the only aspirant declared ineligble for the party’s July 20 primary. The nine-man committee led by Alhaji Tijjani Tumsa on Friday cleared all but one of the 12 aspirants angling for the party’s ticket for the October 10 Ondo State Governorship election. The committee refused to make public the name and cause of the disqualification of the aspirant. The committee, which ought to have sat on Friday based on schedule of activities, would sit on Monday having had its assignment postponed to enable it do a thorough job. Aside from entertaining the appeal of the only disqualified aspirant, the committee is also saddled with the responsibility of looking into some petitions/objections filed by some members against a few of the aspirants. One of such petitions was the rejection by 11 aspirants of the indirect mode of primary allegedly adopted by the Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee (CEONCPC) and published on the website of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) last week. A source close to the commitee, who spoke in confidence, said it was to receive the report of the Screening Committee on Saturday and in view of the closeness of the July 20 primary, resolved to meet on Monday. “We are receiving the Screening Committee report today (Saturday) and we have agreed to sit on any appeal or petition on Monday. You know time is of essence. July 20 is here and the aspirants need to go to the field. “From the preliminary information available to our committee, aside from the disqualified aspirant, whom I don’t know if he has appealed, the committee will also consider some petitions from members of the party against some aspirants. “In an attempt to guide against the Bayelsa State experience, our committee will also consider some already handed down petitions and objections by some party members against some of the aspirants,” our source disclosed. Meanwhile the Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee (CEONCPC) may be meeting on Thursday to also review the reports of the Screening and Appeal Committees and consider other sundry matters that may affect the primary election in Ondo State. It was also gathered that the Caretaker Committee will also receive preliminary report from Governor Abubakar Sani Bello- led Ondo State Reconciliation Committee and appoint the Ondo State Governorship Primary Election Committee.