 A United Kingdom based show promoter, Olamide  Baron, has predicted that BBNaija star, Tacha, will be a Nigerian export by 2022. Baron said further thàt despite Tacha’s unceremonious ouster from season four of the Big Brother Naija, she has become the most popular ex-housemate from the Season. The Chief Executive Officer of Baron Inc Entertainment further noted that instead of going into obscurity, Tacha has become a popular figure on the Nigerian entertainment scene with a huge community of followers, known as “Tacha Titans”. Also armed with an ever-growing fan base running through all demographics, Tacha was also described as unstoppable by Baron saying she’s an entrepreneur and brand influencer with a touch of gold. “She’s sold out every merchandise and products she has made as an entrepreneur which of course made huge companies believe associating with her will be a boost in production and company profile,” Baron said in a recent interview. “Tacha has a great personality, fantastic team, loyal and vibrant fan base and an amazing brand management team. These indeed are basics to a successful company. Tacha is my client and I have predicted she will come off flying and hit the ground running after the reality TV show,” he added. According to him, “Earlier in March my management company, Baron Inc. Entertainment UK organised a UK Tour and UAE Tour for Tacha and the response was so great. In fact we had bookings from people who liked to meet Tacha like we were advertising a singer. We sold out tickets very fast. Though we had some people asking us what talent we are selling about Tacha or what exactly was she coming to the UK to do but that question was short lived because Tacha has a loving and commanding personality that is very sellable. “Though the Coronavirus Pandemic affected the tour, and on arriving in the UAE and the UK we were unable to proceed with the tour but we have made plans to have the tour again when everything gets back to Normal. I urge huge brands to buy, endorse and associate with Tacha as soon as possible because she might be unaffordable in the nearest future because Tacha is simply unstoppable.” “I forgot to mention, I am a proud Titan,” he quipped.