A pressure group, Coalition of Niger Delta (CND), has urged the Federal Government to direct the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to release all assets it seized from former militant leader, Chief Government Ekpemupolo (aka Tompolo). It said the call for the immediate restoration of the seized assets back to Ekpemupolo became necessary following a Federal High Court judgment which quashed corruption charges against the ex-militant leader. The group hailed the court judgment in a statement it issued after a virtual meeting last Thursday. The statement, signed by its National Chairman Tamarapreye Tareware, Secretary Prince Meshach Bebenimibo and the seven other Niger Delta state coordinators, stressed that the court had shown that it is “the hope of the common man”. CND said: “We commend the court’s decision. The said judgment is a vindication of Tompolo’s innocence on charges of fraud levelled against him. “Elements who have concocted such allegations are people truncating the development of the Niger Delta region and, as such, their plans have failed woefully. “It should be categorically stated here that Tompolo has always been in the fore front of development in the Niger Delta… “We call on EFCC to hand over properties earlier seized and confiscated from him and his company immediately.” CND hailed President Muhammadu Buhari for his commitment to the development of the oil-rich region, citing the recent inauguration of the 17-storey Local Content Building in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, as an example. Also, a pressure group, Host Communities of Nigeria (HOSCON), has called for the sack and prosecution of officials who allegedly plundered the “common wealth” of Niger Delta through the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). In a statement on Sunday after a meeting among leaders from the 10 oil producing states of Delta, Edo, Ondo, Lagos, Bayelsa, Rivers, Cross Rivers, Akwa Ibom, Abia and Imo, HOSCON demanded the urgent inauguration of the screened members of NDDC board. The statement by its National Director of Media and Publicity, Okakuro Monday Whiskey, said residents of the Niger Delta region have had enough of the “wonton wastage and outright stealing that is ongoing currently in the commission”. The group recalled that when the NDDC was put under the control of the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs, it raised the alarm in November 2019 that such would be detrimental to the region. “We are no longer comfortable with the multi-billion naira fraud that has bedevilled the NDDC under the kangaroo three-member Interim Management Committee (IMC), leading to wastage of over N80 billion.”