Dear Ma, I am a 33-year-old virgin and I must confess to you I’m not happy with the state of my life! In fact, I’m becoming more convinced by the day that I committed myself to a life of singlehood by refusing the advances of all the men that came my way because I vowed to keep my virginity till my wedding night! Truth is, I’m the most beautiful of my sisters and the eldest. My two younger sisters are married with children and my mum has almost frustrated me to the point of settling with just any one! She keeps telling me how rich or accomplished I’d have become if I had dated and married one person or the other however these men wanted to sleep with me even before 2 weeks of settling in a relationship with them. Now, I feel so terrible like I made a grave mistake by choosing to preserve my virginity and to worsen matters, there’s no good spouse to settle with in sight! Am I going to remain like this? Am I condemned or what? I’m so depressed! P lease help ma! Miss P. My darling, golden, precious, super-duper, uncommon miss p, Awww…my sweet, how I wish I could see you and give you a bear hug and squeeze that pain and regret out of your heart and your whole being! If only you knew what you’re carrying!!! In fact, I owe you a gift! Wow! Not only are you a glory/virtue container, you are a mobile altar and the power house of god! I can’t really say how much of a committed Christian you are but anyone who can ignore the pleasures of the world and refuse to satisfy the cravings of the flesh certainly has a great measure of God resident in her! Well done my dearest! I can just imagine how superb you are in the eyes of God! I can imagine how easy it was for you in school and the fantastic grades you had as a result of concentrating on studying instead of guys! I can imagine the extra-ordinary grace of God upon your life! I certainly won’t be able to count the numerous open doors before you because you have not opened up the gates of your life to be polluted or contaminated by strange spirits! I can imagine the enormous power of God that has welled up in you and which would empower you to live life on your own terms and have the world at your feet! Did you even know you have a continuous assessment before God who has been watching you with keen interest and processing you to become a wonderful wonder and flaunt you in the eyes of your mockers? Haaa…in case you don’t know, the time of your glorification is near and I tell you this very year and the stupid, bad devil wants to deprive you of your diadem! But you already conquered it by sharing your experience with me.  Heartiest congratulations my love! I rejoice with you! The world is certainly your oyster. Your imagination must be so vivid and I see your wonderful dreams manifesting with great speed! You shall turn out a roaring success and the fear of God you’ve had all these years would make God do the uncommon for you and stand you out forever in Jesus mighty name! Now, I plead with you to forget about the pressures of having a spouse! You have all it takes to silence your mum and every other person putting pressure on you! PURSUE YOUR DESTINY! Tell God to take absolute control and not put you to shame – talk to Him every now and then and begin to imagine the type of man and home you want to end up in! You have the enormous power to magnetise it! I KNOW WHAT I’M TALKING ABOUT! In fact, increase the level of wealth, good looks, fantastic qualities and all you desire in a man- you deserve it and the power of God in you would magnetise him before you know it! You will end up with a better home than your family members and friends can ever imagine. God will make you an envy of everyone around you! Stop wallowing in despair and don’t sell yourself cheap! Bury yourself in your job- let the power of God in you make you carry out your tasks with excellence. Don’t be surprised you may even be promoted this year! Nurture your spiritual beauty, develop yourself spiritually until you become a fiery furnace and a city set on a hill that the whole world would salute till eternity! Expect the very best of God this year! God bless you!