Olayide Adelami is a governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ondo State. He spoke with reporters in Akure, the state capital, on his plans for the state and chances at the primary. Excerpts: How would you describe your time as the former Deputy Clerk of the National Assembly and what would you consider your greatest legacy? It was a good experience. You will agree with me that National Assembly is the hub of Nigerian politics. It is an institution that has truly impacted my life, because everything in the National Assembly is about the security and welfare of the people. That is where I received most of my trainings. It was a good learning ground for me. In terms of the legacy I left behind, I am bold to say good name. I left a good name and I made a lot of positive impacts in the lives of the people. As an institution itself, I started as an Accountant in Finance Department. I rose to become Director of Finance and as people-oriented person, I made sure all my staff were developed. Even when I moved to Procurement Department, I encouraged Human Resources development, almost 1/3 (one-third) of my staff became qualified Procurement Officers before I left. That singular act earned me an honorary fellow of the Nigerian Institute of Purchasing and Supplies. I encouraged trainings. I believe in their career advancement. I ensured that the entire staff of the Directorate were trained locally, while Level 10 and above of my Staff were also exposed to international training in addition to the local trainings. What are the impetus for you to run for the governorship position in Ondo State? My interest is the people, because I have been a people oriented person and governance is all about the wellbeing of the people, especially the common man on the streets. You take care of the welfare of the people and that is what governance is all about. It also involves efficient management of the resources of the State to impact on the lives of the people positively. My aspiration to become Governor of my state is just like coming back to practice what I have learnt how to do best for over 35years to impact on the people. When I was in the National Assembly, I managed resources, managed materials and human beings, having worked in various departments, empowering people. In a nutshell, I would say that my burning desire to make impacts on the lives of the people remains my core credential to assume the governance of Ondo State and of course, through the mandate of the people. Your critics based their criticisms on the fact that you have not been active politically before now.  How prepare are you for the top job? Like I told you, National Assembly is like a school, a learning ground where my political ideals were incubated. I am also a community person and my people can attest to that. So, charity begins at home. I have done much for my community and its environs and I want to extend the gestures to other parts of Ondo State. Governance is about the people. We have to harness the resources of the State to impact and transform the State. The governor is from Owo and you are from Owo. What are you bringing on-board to encourage Ondo people to accept and support you? Unfortunately, this question comes often and often. My common answer is that governance in the State is not about Owo alone. Owo is just a Local Government out of 18. It is about righting the wrong and bringing out the best for the good of the people. Although, I would like my prognosis to be issue based, but let me say, without dragging anyone in the mud, that what we have seen so far in the State has not reflected the yearnings of the people. I, honestly, would not like to dwell much on personalities. I would rather want to talk about our political party. You know without the Party, there cannot be Governor. Party makes you the Governor and you work against the party and you also work against the people that worked for you. So, why are you there? My coming into governance is going to be a corrective regime, in terms of developing the people, relationship with the people and party men. I am coming to achieve Party cohesion. I am coming to make APC stronger than any other party in the State. And I am coming for real and sustainable development. The focus of the current government is just the rehabilitation of selected city roads. The rural roads are not touched. The projects are not really benefitting our teaming unemployed youths and people at the grassroots. The city roads have little or no synergetic effects on sustainable development in the State. I will rather prioritise the development of the rural roads spiced with urban renewal. Of what essence are the city roads that do not bring food to the table. Ondo people need a bridge builder. Do you see yourself as one? I am indeed, a bridge builder of repute. As I have said earlier, I have used all my previous positions to unite people, impact their lives and create opportunities for them to excel. By the special grace of God, this is one of the inbuilt attributes I am bringing on-board. By the time we commence governance through the mandate of the people, and by grace of God, the State will witness a new era of development and party cohesion. It’s going to be a new era and I am prepared to make my mark within a single term of four years. Are you saying, you won’t spend more than one term in office if voted in as the next Governor of Ondo State? I honestly believe that a single term of four years is enough for me to touch the lives of my people and leave the stage for another credible person. Besides, Ondo State was at a time a one-term State, rotating from one senatorial district to another. Agagu broke the jinx. He spent one term and the people gave him another mandate of second term but midway to accomplishing his second term, the Court terminated it. It was not the people who terminated the term, it was the Court on technical grounds. Then, Dr. Mimiko from the Central Senatorial District came on board and spent two terms of 8 years. It’s now the turn of the North Senatorial Zone for 8 years, under a credible candidate. How do you intend to address the challenges of infrastructural development? In my manifestoes, Agriculture is one of the priorities, not just agriculture, but Agro-business. Ondo State is known for Agriculture, especially Cocoa production which used to be the mainstay. In the past, Ondo, by extension, Osun, Ekiti, Cocoa is the main source of economy sustenance servicing the whole of the old western region. Then, the value chain of agriculture was very high. Now, we are going to revive that feat to create employment for our people. We are going back to cash crops of cocoa revival and others to encourage our farmers, especially, the young farmers. The other area is agro-business with special focus on crops with short gestation period like rice, cassava, vegetables, and other cash crops with good value chain. We are going to partner with Agro- pruners and engage our youths on agro-business. We are going to take them out of the streets. We are going to develop Industrial Park in each of the 3 senatorial districts. We have one already at Ore. The others will be at the Central and the North. So the investors will be left with the choice of where to locate their industries. Do you have any plan to tap into the abandoned huge resources that could have served Ondo State? Well, I don’t know why he has reneged on his promises, but on my part I don’t promise what I can’t deliver. When I get into power by the special grace of God and the people’s mandate, I will look at the revenue of the State and look at other options that we can explore to ensure that there is water in the State, because water is life. People need water and they must have access to potable water. Once there is good water, there will be less patronage of hospitals. We will look into the level of infrastructural decay at the Dam and know how much it would take to revive them. Not even only Owena Dam, there used to be Ose Dam. We will know how we can revive them at a minimised cost. So, all these are options. What is your plan for the health sector? In the Health Sector, we are going to remodel what Mimiko did at that time, and see how we can resuscitate the healthcare services of Ondo state. The incumbent government only concentrates on urban roads. We will look into all these and we will prioritise. Then, I understand that the Mother and Child hospital was free and other governments were trying to emulate. We shall look at it as much as possible. We are going to domesticate the NHIS law that gives access to hospital. We shall review it and make sure that informal sector is captured so that people can have access to affordable healthcare. Right now, it is being experimented in Lagos. We will study it, once it is successful, we will introduce it in Ondo State. The artisans and other organised informal sector in the State will also benefit. If by God’s grace you become the Governor of Ondo State, how will you treat the organised informal sector? The organised informal sector will be patronised. Sincerely, the money of Ondo State must circulate within Ondo State and that’s one of the things that can increase and boost the economy of the State. Anytime I travel down to Akure, I always feel disappointed because the economic activities within the State are not as buoyant as expected. Considering that Akure is the seat of Government where money is being spent. All the huge money being spent by the present government, there is nothing to show for it in terms of economic development and commercial activities in the State. We are currently witnessing serious capital flight in the State. There are many things being sold or fabricated in Akure, yet the government patronise people in Ibadan, Lagos and others. The capital flight is immeasurable and a gross disservice to our people. That is why very little economic activities are taking place here. We need to look into that. The allocation and the Internally Generated Revenue must be made to circulate within Ondo State. That’s the only way we can develop a better economy. My position is that, there should be Local Government Financial Autonomy. Development must be driven at the grassroots. When you develop the grassroots, when the local government funds are being spent within the local government, the economic activities of all the Local Government Areas will increase, while their Internally Generated Revenue will also increase. All these will translate to real development. The centralization of expending Local Government funds at the State Capital is unacceptable to me. Let the two levels of government in the State manage its funds. Not that somebody will sit at the centre and all the money will be spent at the centre. I don’t believe in that.