A Nigerian couple and two other compatriots are set to make the country and Africa proud in the upcoming elections in the United States. The man, Dr Erhabor Ighodaro, is the candidate for the Florida State Senate District election while the wife, Shannon, is the candidate for the Miami Gardens City Council, Seat 3. Dr. Ighodaro whose primary elections in Florida are slated for August 18, 2020, is making the need to put families first the focal point of his campaign. He said: “I’m running for Secretary of State to protect the right to vote for Missouri families, to ensure that your voice will be heard by your elected officials through ballot measures, as well as securing our elections. “My entire professional career, from serving in the military to practising law to my work with non-profits, I have always sought to be a problem solver and someone who continually moves further upstream to get things done. “One of my greatest joys today is to thank you for supporting our campaign efforts. For the last eight years, I have served as Councilman and Vice Mayor in the third largest city in Miami Dade County and the most populous African American city in the state of Florida. “On the Miami Gardens City Council I currently hold the seat formerly held by outgoing State Senator Oscar Braynon, II. Having just won a record breaking election, I have been called to serve our community in the Florida Legislature. “I have served our community as a champion for our children, advocate for special needs, consensus builder and voice for our business community. “We have established a campaign to put our Families First and we need your support to continue the fight for adequate and fair representation.” Dr. Ighodaro is an educator with a solid background in public management, urban justice, urban education, curricula design and implementation of best practice methodologies, educational public policy and the intervention and resolution of school and community based conflict. His wife Shannan is the candidate for Miami Gardens City Council, Seat 3 in the upcoming Primary Elections in Florida. The election will hold on August 18, 2020. “As a lifelong resident of the city of Miami Gardens, a place I am proud to call home and a thriving community my husband and I have raised our twin daughters Esosa and Idia, we are excited to have you join our campaign for Progress,” she said. Reeling out what seems like her manifesto, Shannan said: “We must ensure that we safeguard the welfare and vitality of our beloved city. We must continue to fight to make sure we maintain a city where our people can live, work and play. “We must continue to fight for the safety of our children and families, promote contract opportunities for women and local businesses and provide mentorship opportunities for our young women.