The piece of news that 13 vessels from five countries heavily ravaged by the deadly coronavirus are Nigeria-bound is a scary one. The Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Jimoh Bashir, who raised the alarm last week, said eight of the vessels would berth in Apapa, Lagos; four in Bonny, and one in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital. The last ports of call of these vessels were the United States of America, Brazil, India, United Kingdom and Spain. At a time Nigeria is grappling with a spike in COVID-19 cases and trying to ease the lockdown imposed to curtail the further spread of the virus, the vessels from those coronavirus-ravaged countries presage deleterious consequences, if they are not properly managed on arrival. For one, although the pandemic has been plummeting the entire world, the situation in those five countries is particularly precarious. The case of US is more grisly. As at last Thursday, the country had recorded a whopping 2,673,300 COVID-19 cases, while no less than 128,736 persons have died of the dreaded virus. Brazil trails US with 1,368,195 cases and 58,314 deaths. India had recorded 567,586 cases and 16,904 deaths. In UK, 311,965 persons had contracted the deadly virus, which had also killed 43,575 persons in that country. This is a very grim situation. However, notwithstanding the trepidations that may trail the coming of those vessels, we cannot stop cargoes from entering the country. After all, vessels have been coming into the country since the outbreak of COVID-19; just as other countries have been receiving cargoes from outside. In essence, no nation is an island unto itself. What is important in this case is the state of our preparedness to receive those vessels. How ready are the agencies responsible for managing the safety of the ports in this wise? Are they adequately equipped? These are the issues. The NIMASA boss spoke of the need to ensure that stakeholders adhere to the guidelines put in place to prevent the spread of COVID-19 at the ports and in Nigeria, as these vessels are being expected. “We are counting on the cooperation of frontline government agencies and private sector operators in this regard as we jointly wage the war against the COVID-19 pandemic”, Bashir said. He urged the operators at the ports to ensure that all the safety measures and precautions are applied, in the best interest of the maritime community and the country. This is as it should be. Some of the guidelines put in place by NIMASA to prevent the spread of COVID-19 at the ports include: “That all maritime stakeholders are required to develop risk assessments and safety interventions guidelines for their personnel and operations on the areas of vulnerabilities of their maritime operations that can be affected by COVID-19 pandemic” and “that all ongoing and/or other scheduled offshore operations requiring new crew or crew changes from affected countries shall ensure that pre-departure tests for COVID-19 are conducted on such persons and self-isolation procedures for the prescribed period are instituted for such new crew/personnel before exposure to other personnel.” The 17-point guideline, titled, “COVID-19 marine notice,” also provides, among others, “that only international marine vessels having thermal screening facilities for passengers and crew may be allowed into the ports; that shipping agents/masters of vessels shall submit all documents related to crew and passengers regarding their travel to/from the COVID-19 affected countries; no sick passengers/crew shall be allowed to board any ship by the shipping agent and/or master of vessel; the Port Health Officer (PHO) shall carry out thermal screening of all the passengers and crew members on board ship and until clearance is given by the PHO, no passengers and/or crew members shall be allowed ashore.” The guidelines are quite comprehensive. And if implemented to the letter, they are capable of ensuring that the expected 13 vessels and others are managed in such a way that will not precipitate any upset that can hurt the nation’s fragile health system already stretched to the limit. This is, therefore, not the time to be lax or lethargic. The situation calls for eternal vigilance, not only regarding the 13 vessels but also other vessels that are constantly berthing at our shores.