As Nigeria is gradually re-opening from the COVID-19 induced lock-down, the chairman of the Aworitourism Organisation and also head of  Jethro Tours, Prince Adetunji Femi Fadina has called for urgent repair of  key roads in Ota. He said the terrible state of the roads  is adversing affecting tourism and business in the town. Fadina made the call in a recent press conference. He explained that the ancient ctown of  Ota is endowed with tourism assets ranging from historical sites like the second storey building in Nigeria, built in 1842; the colourful egungun festival which he said originates from Ota, to the religious tourism at Canaanland (Living Faith Church).  Fadina said the attractions in Ota are capable of attracting large number of tourists but this has become impossible due to the current state of the roads leading and within Ota.  His words: “The road issue, I won’t blame the state because majority of our bad roads here in Aworiland is basically federal roads. That is why I put the blame on the minister; I put the blame on those who are in the centre because they need to know that if you have roads that produce 80 per cent of a state’s revenue, they need to look into them; a state that has a bother town just next door to us, they need to look into it. So, whoever is not doing our road is not worthy to be in that position. “You talked about Egungun festival as a tourism product, what is the interface between the management of Awori tourism and traditionalist that own the Egungun festival. Secondly, talking about the tourism potential in Aworiland, how much do you think it can generate as IGR for the state? “The Egungun festival could be a huge tourism income earner, but between us in the tourism board and the organisers of the Egungun festival…we would have actually handled some aspects of the festival this year, but like you know, there are some certain things that need to be done. However, I can rest assure you that we will be part of it. “In terms of revenue for the Adodo/Ota council area, if I add Winners Church for religious visit to it, we are losing close to about five to eight billion Naira annually in revenue. Annually in terms of looking at the crowd that attends Shiloh for example, it should have benefited us. Basically there is a tourism product and there is a tourism economy. When you connect product to tourism economy, when you connect the tourism products together, you make the tourism economy.” He also spoke on the state of tourism in Nigeria and the way forward: “ To me, the minister in charge of tourism needs to sit down and ask himself: am I doing a good job?  Because if we are getting it right with the minister,  we will get it right in every state.   So, we have put a lot of things in place and I can guarantee you that we are about to roll things out. “Nigeria is endowed with numerous tourism attraction sites spread across the country.  Road transportation is the commonest means of transportation within Nigeria and good road infrastructure is required for smooth and safe motor vehicle transportation. “As such, a good transportation network is imperative for the promotion of tourism in Nigeria. Although Nigeria has expansive road network, they are in very poor condition because of the extent of damage and lack of maintenance and are mostly not motor-able. “These impediments affect tourism in Nigeria consequently impacting on the country’s growth and development. This media chat looks at the poor road quality in our state and Nigeria as impediment to tourism growth in Nigeria. “We pray and also offer solutions and recommendations  on how to repair and maintain the roads  in order to promote tourism, safety, tourism development and ultimately tourism sustainability. In Nigeria, road transportation is expected to enhance cultural, economic and  social interactions. Unfortunately, the road infrastructure and facilities are poor and this impacts on the growth and development of the tourism  sector in Nigeria. This is serious dilemma and huge impediment.”     