 The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Edo State chapter, has accused the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its governorship candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, of desperation. PDP, yesterday in Benin, through its Publicity Secretary, Chris Nehikhare, asked of when leaders and members of APC would stop making frivolous and unsubstantiated allegations against the PDP and Edo State Government. It wondered what was the concern of Ize-Iyamu about Governor Godwin Obaseki’s appointment of aides. PDP said: “We really do not want to respond to the infantile tantrum of APC, as it is now becoming obvious to the good people of Edo State, especially the voting public, that APC has finally lost the plot and is grabbing at straws to shield its obvious incompetence. Not just the governorship election, but their marble. “How else does one respond to Ize-Iyamu’s statement laced with lies, childish innuendos, immature reasoning and thoughts? No wonder the party had been trending on monumental failures. “To reconcile APC and Ize-Iyamu thinking that the Edo State Government is giving out appointments to thugs and cultists to disrupt the elections, when Edo people now call and hail Governor Obaseki as the thug and godfather slayer, is an obvious display of their desperation to try to bully the good people of our state.”  It is common knowledge that the APC is the party that is populated by known thugs and brigands, in the many factions that exist within it. “Governor Obaseki’s fight from the day he took over power was the conscious demobilisation of thugs, cultists and their sponsors. This led to the protracted battle of wits that birthed the sack of their National Chairman (Comrade Adams Oshiomhole), fragmentation of the party (APC) into bits and Edo governor leaving the prostrate party for the comfort of the umbrella. “We understand the frustration involved in trying to put together a scattered broom, but that is not an excuse to tell tall tales and fallacies. “The lady said her husband is bad. She called him all sorts of names to deride him. He left her and married a new wife. She has now gone berserk, filled with rage, jealousy and envy. A green demon showing its fangs wouldn’t you say? This is story of APC.” Edo PDP said its members and leaders were focused on resetting the state for a better and brighter tomorrow.