After waiting for about nine hours, the suspended Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr. Ibrahim Magu could not get copies of the allegations against him by Presidential Committee on Audit of Recovered Assets (PCARA) and the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr. Abubakar Malami (SAN). He, however, pleaded with the Presidential Investigation Committee on the activities of the EFCC to make the allegations available to him. But a source attributed the challenge in getting the allegations to communication gap between the committee and Magu. The source said the panel was not aware that Magu was at the venue of the sitting of the panel. It was learnt that Magu arrived at the venue of the panel at about 9.30am and left at about 7.15pm when he could not open his defence. It was gathered that on arrival, Magu was taken to a waiting room while the panel was holding its session upstairs. The counsel to the suspended Acting Chairman of EFCC, Mr. Wahab Shittu said: “We are waiting on the panel to release the list of allegations against Magu. We came to the venue of the panel with the determination to open our defence but we have not got the copies of the allegations. “We were civil in our approach. We have a lot of respect for the Chairman of the Presidential Investigation Committee, Justice Isa Ayo Salami (Rtd. PCA), we appeal to him and other members to assist us with the allegations. Shittu added: “We are not opposed to the probe. But we want the list of the allegations against him by Presidential Committee on Audit of Recovered Assets (PCARA) and the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr. Abubakar Malami (SAN). “It is when we have the allegations that we will be able to respond appropriately. So far, Magu has not been able to testify before the panel. We want fair hearing, we want justice “It was around after 7pm that we were told that Salami committee was not aware that Magu came to the venue to begin his defence. “My appeal to the panel, on behalf of my client, is to ensure fair hearing for all. They should oblige us the copies of the allegations. A top source said: “I think there was a communication gap between the panel and Magu. The investigation committee will hear from Magu.”