 ONDO State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu received the endorsement of three key opponents on Monday. Dr. Olusegun Abraham, Ifeoluwa Oyedele and Jimi Odimayo endorsed the governor hours before the primary election. The All Progressives Congress, in a statement, hailed Oyedele for stepping down for Akeredolu. It described Oyedele as a true party man who sacrificed his interest for the general interest of the party in the state. A statement issued by the Ondo APC Director, Media & Publicity, Steve Otaloro, said: “The interest of the citizens of Ondo state is more important than my interest. We are determined to ensure that we work together for what will be of benefit to citizens of Ondo state. We will work together to unite our party, to rebuild the party, unite our members so that we can have a rapid economic development in the state. Also, I call on other aspirants to support us in this quest of uniting our party. “As a political party, we commend Engr Ife Oyedele who spoke with a degree of candour uncharacteristic of politicians in the system, particularly, when they are pursuing certain political ambition. We also hope other politicians will learn from him that the greater interest of the party is paramount to their personal interest.” The Chairman of the governorship primary, Governor Yahaya Bello, said all aspirants gave their consent for the primary to hold on Monday. Bello, announced commencement of the exercise, said: “We had an interaction with all aspirants and leaders of our great party in Ondo State yesterday evening. Our interactive session was smooth. So, we are all prepared for this election. After the interactive session, nobody objected to the conduct of this election. “Aspirants have received enough notification. They are expected to be here. All agents are also expected to be here. Since we arrived here, we have inspected this venue of the election including the accreditation area in this dome. Ballot papers are sealed. I have not seen how they look like.”