 LITERALLY speaking, the weather has been under the weather for about one or two weeks in many parts of Nigeria. Rainfall has gone on a short holiday, giving way to gentle, cold wind in some places before the seasonal AUGUST break. In Southwestern Nigeria, this is the season senior citizens are said to leave the flesh in large numbers. So, it is the time young ones pay serious attention to the elderly. Do not be surprised if you find more women tie scarves which cover their ears. It is their own way of keeping out the cold. As I write, about mid-night this Sunday (July 19, 2020), Better Effiong, the 13-year-old  orphan girl I am a guardian to, went to bed wearing socks and two gowns. In addition, she wrapped herself with a blanket in such a manner you’d think she is an Eyptian  Mummie! Surprisingly, she carries an extra padding of fat all around her which should burn to keep her warm against the cold. It is possible she has far more white fat cells than the brown. The white doesn’t burn well and fast, even under stimulation from fat burning herbs. This is probably a reason some fat persons don’t “come down”, despite efforts to shed excess fat load. On the other hand, brown fat cells burns fast and well on their own, even without stimulation or provocation. That means they burn to release energy even when you do not ask them to, through the use of herbs. People who have a lot of them are usually slim or thin, and are warm or hot almost all day. In these days of coronavirus overstatements, they may be mistaken for coronavirus infected persons. But they may not be, and often outlive the fat. Such people may eat the world without any evidence of it in their body mass! In this cold season, there is a tendency to eat more. I have found myself rounding off on three square meals, except on days I undertake organic coffee enemas to clean up the liver and the digestive tract, and I deliberately spike breakfast to give myself a break from food. The reason for the “greed” may be the need for more energy from food to keep the body warm.  Red hot Pepper There is something I do not toy with during cold season, such as this and the harmattan, which follows the winding down of rainfall. It is RED HOT PEPPER. In my flower beds, I grow some of them. I may sound bizarre if I say I pick some fresh, wash them in saline or Vinegar water and dice them directly into corn pap. My favourite among them is CAYENNE or Cameroun pepper. Where I do not have ripened cayenne, I use the proprietary blend which can offer me 100,000 heat units per capsule. This appears even hotter and more warming than the vine-ripened cayenne. I prefer corn pap for dinner, on a cautionary note. It is light and should digest easily. But I recognise it is a simple carbohydrate with a high glycemic index because it has lost much of its fiber from the way we process the corn in Nigeria. I know it may spike blood sugar in the morning as the sugar is packed up in the blood all night while all physical activities to burn it up are at low ebb. So, what preventive measures do I take? I add some sugar burners which, incidentally, are fiber endowed. My favourite is ORANGE PEEL POWDER, which comes from the green peel of the orange. This citrus peel is a friend of diabetics. It cuts high blood cholesterol levels as well, tackles hypertension, histamine related ailments, such as cough and asthma and is a powerful natural anti-histamine. In addition, I may complement orange peel with INDIAN GOOSEBERRY. Another name for it is AMALAKI or AMLA. This powder is good for many purposes, including the lowering of intra-ocular pressure in glaucoma. It has Vitamin A for clear vision and immune boosting, and other purposes. While Cayenne helps to keep the body warm against the cold night, CBD capsules help me cruise over the day-time cold weather. I noticed the effects of a 200gm capsule in about six hours, warming and energising the body, calming the  nerves and steadying brain performance. I suggest it be tried along with Magnesium and Gotu Kola by people who have attention deficit or who are hyperactive.  Ubiquinol This is another wonderful energiser. It is the more bio-active version of Co- enzyme Q10(CoQ10). Every human cell contains ubiquinol. Inside every cell, there are “energy factories” called mitochondria. It is inside the mitochondria that energy is produced. The more the mitochondria in a cell, the more its energy output. The number of mitochondria is related to the quantum of ubiquinol in the cell. Thus, the energy output of the cell depends somewhat on the value of ubiquinol in the cell. The heart has the largest stockpile of ubiquinol in the body for good reason. It works non-stop from the womb to physical death and requires a large amount of energy to perform its tasking job. Many heart diseases have been linked to a deficiency of ubiquinol. Accordingly, it is advisable to supplement the diet of old or sick and weak people with obiquinol. Dr. Carl Folkers, the father of CoQ10 research, carried out a land mark experiment in which large dosage of CoQ10, which was believed to be the single nutritional factor that helped a majority of terminally ill breast cancer patients to energise their breasts and nutritionally cure their cancers.  Cold legs & feet If you watch old people at this time, they are not only wearing cardigans or sweaters but socks as well. They are especially cold in the legs and feet. This may be because the tiny blood capillaries which bring circulation to the surface area have collapsed or had become blocked by all manner of substances which do not dissolve in the blood stream. Cayenne and other peppers may help breakdown these barriers to blood flow and quicken the heartbeat. Vitamins B6, B12 and Folic acid can also help if the blockage is from HOMOCYSTEINE, a greasy byproduct of the metabolism of an important amino  acid.  Urine We tend to urinate more this season. This is because the cold atmosphere causes the body to constrict, rather than expand blood vessels near the skin. Their expansion brings more blood to the skin surface, so that some heat can be lost through perspiration. Perspiration or sweating takes away some toxins as well. In the constriction of the blood vessels, heat is conserved, there is less perspiration and the kidneys are called upon to eliminate more waste through urination which becomes more frequent. Men who are challenged with the prostate gland should not let be lured to sleep by this understanding of how the body responds to cold weather. They should see their doctors and run tests, if they experience urine dribbling, scanty flow or retention. As the kidneys tend to work more in a season such as this, they should be given all the support they need to prevent overworking them and to protect against the toxins they are to filter out of the blood stream. So, it is important to drink more water. I monitor my need for water not only by the mechanism of the dry mouth warning system. And that is because in some people, this mechanism no longer works or works sub-optimally. Rather, I keep a marked white table glass in the bathroom and catch my urine in it. Every member of the household is informed about the mark so that they do not one day mistakenly mix it up with glasses for drinking water. The body speaks to us their owners in various ways – through the colour, weight, volume and the urine. Watch your urine carefully. If it bubbles and the bubbles break up so soon after you finish, there may be no trouble coming up. But if there is foam, which lingers on, the kidneys may have some trouble and be unable to keep a certain protein the blood stream. Laboratory tests may determine that it is this protein in the urine, rather than in the blood stream that is causing the foam. In other cases the foam may be cause by infection. If the colour is deep, the kidneys may be heading for trouble and more water intake may help them. Deep colour signifies a concentration of waste and toxins, none the least of which is urea normally downgrades to uric acid in urine. It may well happen sometimes that the enzyme, URICASE, which is required to do this is not doing the job well for whatever reason, including an insufficiency of it. It may also be because the kidneys are getting weaker and passing out, or because there is a need for dilution through more water intake. When half a glass of urine is heavier in the hand than a full glass, it may be time to see the Urologist. Sometimes, ants may visit the urine in the glass. This may tell us blood sugar is rising and that it is time to add sugar burners such as orange peel, Chanka piedra or Karela, among others, to the diet. Sometimes, pure salt, such as sodium, accumulates at the bottom of the glass. This may be a good or bad event. If we have been on a diet overloaded with potassium, sodium will be flushed out of the body. This may be a bad event if sodium levels in the blood fall too low because salt is required for nerve action and other functions. Low levels of sodium may disturb the sodium-potassium pump, which drives nutrients into the cells and pumps waste and poison out of them. A deficiency of sodium may also be why some people do not have restful night sleep because the nerves are not calm. Dr. F. Batmanghelidy got around insomnia with some of his patients by encouraging them to drink some water and then rub a pinch of table salt on their tongues (these days, sea salt or complete salt is in vogue).  Kidney herbs In this season, as always, we can enjoy our kidneys more if we support them with herbs. They are the filters of our blood, to rid us of poisons. If we regularly clean the fuel filters of our motor vehicles to protect the engine from unwanted materials, what about our bodies which should be more valuable to us? Mother Nature gives us many kidney cleansing herbs. Maize is in season now. Its filaments, also called CORN SILK, are good for even urinary tract infections (UTIs),when they are dry. In the wet form, they may purgative. Dandelion, a very good natural diuretic, is useful for the liver as well. The beauty of this herb is that, unlike chemical-infused diuretics, which leach potassium from the body, causing potassium deficiency symptoms such as lethargy, sore muscles, uterine fibroids, cancer and other growths, dandelion leaves and root bring Potassium into the body.  Marsh Mallow Root Marsh mallow root is a demulcent. It is soothing. It stimulates the mucus membrane lining. That is why it is useful in ulcers. But asthamtic should used it under the supervision of a healthcare provider because it can spur more mucus production than it saves in the air pipes.  Ginger Ginger is anti-inflammatory and is valuable where irritation induces such tendencies. So are cucumin, CBD oil or capsule and Jobelyn. Many natural care givers add herbs, such as onion and garlic, turmeric, golden rod, Juniper and cranberry. Everyone familiar with the ALOE BERRY NECTAR of Forever Living Products (FLP) would easily appreciate cranberry for its conquering powers over urinary tract infection (UTIs). Aloe vera is another plant we should not leave out. When the kidneys are weak and fluid begins to accumulate all over the body as in dropsy, the RED KIDNEY BEAN POD may be a great choice. Unfortunately, this bean is no longer widely cultivated in Nigeria, and proprietary formulas or blends of it  are scarce in the country at a time the number of severe kidney challenges is growing. I cannot forget CILANTRO. That sounds esoteric. What if we call it by its other name, CORRIANDER? It used to be a famous vegetable in Yoruba cuisine. Then, its local name was EBOLO ( r:d:d). Today, the average Yoruba woman knows little or nothing about it because her mother never cooked it. And she never did either, because she found the smell and probably the taste, offensive. Yet this is a great kidney and urinary tract cleanser and healer. We now have to import the powder, capsule and even tinctures, when we have  more land than we need to  grow it. Can we forget ASPARAGUS as well? No, we cannot. It has been used with great effect in the treatment of cancer in the urological system. Many of these herbs are warehoused in proprietary formulas such as Bell Lifestyle’s KIDNEY CLEANSE and FUNCTION TEA.  Cayenne  As I stated earlier, I combine Cayenne and CBD capsules to offset the cold weather. Cayenne stimulates metabolism and thermogenesis.  Capsaicin, its active ingredient, blocks expressions of pain by the nervous system, muscles and joints. By inducing thermogenesis and fat burning, Cayenne may be a weight manager. By straightening up the nervous system, it can reduce or stop itching. Inflammation may retreat before cayenne because it is anti-inflammatory. That should be good news for asthmatics and pain sufferers. Cold and congestion cannot stand before heat any more than ice in the sun. One capsules of standardised capsaicin in cayenne capsule should produce about 100,000 heat units, almost enough to keep the blood flowing freely for one day. The generated heat breaks down coagulations in red blood cells. Cayenne is probably able to achieve these and other goals because it’s a powerhouse of antioxidants, which include… Vitamin A, Vitamin C, Vitamin E, Beta carotene, Choline (an important nerve nutrient), Zeazanthin and Cryptoxanthin. Finally, I see a relationship between this season of cold and a bumper harvest of peppers in farms and in the delivery to the food markets. Isn’t Mother Nature wonderful?  And for Better Effiong who woke up this Monday morning July 20, 2020 as I conclude this article, asking me why the weather is so cold when we are not in the harmattan season, I replied: ONE CAYENNE CAPSULE OR RAW PEPPER EVERY DAY KEEPS THE COLD AT BAY.  