Nigeria -born FC Reid of Austria striker, Ugochukwu Oduenyi, was delighted to be back in action after months of injury coupled with COVID-19 challenges. The lanky striker, who plays more like Roman Lukaku of Inter Milan, said Reid is too dedicated to play in the Austria Bundesliga next season. The 24-year-old speedy striker is a product of Emmanuel Amuneke youth academy, Nigeria before departing the country for greener pastures in Europe. He spoke with Samson Oti on life in Austria, the coronavirus challenges and the dreams of SV Reid to play in Austria Bundesliga next season. Excerpts: Oduenyi, congrats on your return to action. How did you feel coming back to football after injury and Covid-19 challenges? I feel great and happy to return from injuries. I have missed football despite that my teammates are doing well on the pitch. They always received my support and thank they have been supportive of my return to pitch. I have been unlucky with injuries, it’s always difficult when you get injured but that’s football. I just got back and since last month I have been training hard and I’m feeling great again, I played my first game of the season last week and it feels great to be back on the pitch with my team. Do you see your team achieving the Bundesliga ticket? We have only one goal, that is to be in the Bundesliga and every player is committed to achieving that goal, the rest can wait. This is a club with “good history”, the club doesn’t belong in the 2.liga from the way we train to the way we prepare for games, this club belongs in the Bundesliga, and I have no doubt that we can achieve that because we have all what it takes as a team. Tell us about the team spirit concerning the ticket and the remaining games The spirit of the team is great, we have been a great team with top professionals, we are working hard as a group and trying to do what the coaches want from us, we have competition for places in every position and everyone wants to play, that’s a headache for the coach but it’s a very good headache. Before the COVID-19 challenges, it all looked brighter for Reid to get the ticket with their impressive performance, but form has changed from what we use to see at the moment. What happened? It has definitely affected the whole world not just soccer alone before Covid-19. We as a team was flying, winning so many games but after the restart from COVID-19, it has been more downs than ups but in July, we hope it will only be ups and no downs for us. How has life been with you in Austria? It’s a good country with good people, the food is good, and the weather is good! Aside from the language, it’s been good and most people speak English so it’s not a big problem. While growing up, who is your role model? I don’t think there’s any player in the world who doesn’t love Ronaldinho, but I have to say I look more at Lukaku. He’s a beast and the link up play from Olivier Giroud is amazing. These are players I model myself around. Everyone calls me Lukaku haha, but what he has done so far is amazing, but I want to make my name for myself so I have to show that on the pitch.