 Experts in the aviation sector have canvassed a rejig of business models and operational strategies to rescue the industry from the challenges triggered by COVID-19 pandemic. They said the ravaging effects of the pandemic have continued to hurt the aviation sector, resulting in job losses, low returns on investment, suspension of scheduled domestic travels, significant dip in revenue and low morale among industry personnel. If the sector must rebound, they said a raft of measures, such as financial stimulus package by the government, adherence to slot allocation system to be introduced for airlines and investment in information technology by airport authorities and operators as jet drivers, must be put in place. Speaking at a webinar organised by Aviation Media entitled: “Nigeria’s aviation industry: Changing times, changing strategies”, Group Managing Director, Nigerian Aviation Handling Company (NAHCO) Plc, Mrs. Olatokunbo Fagbemi, said the government has a huge role to play in driving the sector towards sustainability, by providing financial palliatives for airlines, ground handling firms and other players to recover and get off speedily. Affirming that palliatives remain critical to airlines’ survival post- COVID-19, Mrs. Fagbemi urged prospective beneficiaries  to weigh deeply the conditions attached to such offers. She said: “Palliatives are a way to help airlines recover and get off speedily. It is a good thing. However, it is important that airlines know under what conditions these palliatives are granted to them. Advocating resilience and collaboration among operators, the handling companies and other stakeholders, she stated that the airlines needed to carry  ground handling firms along in terms of schedules to achieve a common goal. Mrs. Fagbemi said ground handling firms had made  investments ahead of  reopening of the airport but queried how such funds would be recovered. She said despite the challenges,  in the sector, the pandemic would also create opportunities for airlines. Mrs. Fagbemi said airlines should think out of the box by deploying appropriate pricing for air fares to drive their sustainability. She noted that airlines should adopt yield management system in their route planning and fare structure to maximise passenger capacity on their airplanes. The NAHCO boss urged indigenous airlines to diversify into cargo air operations, which could yield significant revenue if they render time-sensitive services. Besides, time-sensitive services, Mrs. Fagbemi said lower charges and fares for cargo would increase the revenue net of indigenous carriers which were yet to tap into the opportunities in cargo business. She said: “Though the coronavirus pandemic has created distortions in the aviation sector, it also could bring in its wake windows of opportunity. This is the time for airlines and ground handling companies to think out of the box. “Significantly, airline business could be profitable if managers adopt appropriate pricing of fares to achieve yield management. This will assist the airlines to handle the fare structure of passengers in the aircraft and how to run profitably. “Airlines need to rejig their strategies and embrace the proposed slot allocation system to be introduced by aviation authorities. This appears the best policy that will allow them  adjust, operate, maximise their time and improve  their on-time performance.’’ Also, Principal Managing Partner of Avaero Capital Sindy Foster canvassed more investment in the sector. She said there was the need to upgrade infrastructure, affirming that though the sector had been clobbered by the pandemic, there still existed opportunities. Foster said: “The industry needs to attract investment. Investment in aviation is important and it is the responsibility of everyone in the industry to make the industry attractive. Meaning there must be corporate governance in every aspect of the industry and majorly airlines and the negative publicity needs to stop.” Foster also canvassed capacity to develop cargo, stating that broadening that market has huge potential. She said: “There  is a need to extend airport operations and lay some more emphasis on cargo; broadening cargo is the right way to go as many goods go through our roads and 60 per cent  of cargo are lost on the roads. We need to do something to attract flying cargo with the right pricing.” Also, Director-General, Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA),  Capt Musa  Nuhu, said airlines, ground handlers and other players would attain success if they abided by the slot allocation system proposed for the sector when domestic flights restart. He said the NCAA was carrying out an audit on airlines to ascertain their financial health as part of the newly- introduced protocols for the restart of flight operations. The NCAA boss urged the airport management to work hard to ensure that the slot allocation system proposed for indigenous carriers comes to fruition. On his part, Managing Director, Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Capt. Hamisu Yadudu, said the authority would continue to collaborate with airlines and industry regulators as well as ground handling companies and other players to achieve success with the slot allocation system. He said: “We will strive to ensure that there is strict compliance with the slots allocated to airlines. Good slots management will achieve a lot for effective management of the terminal space for safe flight operations. Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) Chief Executive Officer Akin Olateru called for a review of strategies in  procedures and investment in technology for operators to ensure sustainability as part of the learning curve from the COVID-19 pandemic. President, Aviation Safety Round Table Initiative (ASRTI), Dr. Gbenga Olowo, urged the airport authority to recalibrate its facilities and processes at airports to reduce friction associated with flights. Olowo called for proper identification of domestic airport terminals in Lagos, according to identification codes recognised by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO).