Netflix has partnered with Nigeria’s most talented creatives to grow the entertainment industry. Nollywood has been at the epi-centre of the African entertainment industry, creating stars and producing content enjoyed by fans across the continent. Netflix partnership with stakeholders is expected to bring Nigeria’s unique stories to the world. With this newfound access to the global stage,  the powerful stories crafted by Nigerian creatives will now enjoy a worldwide audience. Netflix’s Director of Content Acquisition and Co-Productions in Africa who hails from Nigeria, Ben Amadasun,  explains: “Great stories come from anywhere in the world, and Africa is full of incredible stories that we finally get to share with the world. We have a wealth of fables that have been passed down from generations, and Netflix has a great opportunity to bring those stories to the forefront, which will resonate all over the world.’’ According to Actress and Director Genevieve Nnaji (Lionheart), “We have amazing talent and we haven’t had an adequate platform to showcase our talent across the board. It’s a good thing, especially for upcoming artists who want a chance. We have so many more stories to tell.” In the pipeline is the Nigerian Netflix Original, Untitled Akin Omotoso directed by accomplished filmmaker Akin Omotoso, starring Kate Henshaw, Ade Layoe, Richard Mofe Damijo and Joke Silva amongst others. This six-part series, announced in February 2020, is set in contemporary Nigeria and shot in Lagos. ” Acclaimed filmmaker Akin Omotoso adds, “It is my firm belief that a great story will always find a receptive audience, regardless of where it’s from, or how different the world is from their own reality.  Ultimately, people want great entertainment, compelling storylines and powerful acting”. “For so long I’ve been fortunate enough to experience how African content can, in fact, travel and this investment by Netflix is going to help grow the African industry and get our stories out there,” says Mo Abudu, CEO of EbonyLife. Celebrated filmmaker and actor Kunle Afolayan (Mokalik, The CEO, The Figurine) further adds, “I believe so much in my culture and I’ll do everything possible to use audiovisual to project, preach, educate and also preserve the same culture. Aside from entertainment, you can educate, and you can inform.’’ Kenyan-born, Dorothy Ghettuba who leads African Originals for Netflix explains that “our continent has a wealth of diversity, multiplicity, and beauty in stories that have yet to be told and we want to be top of mind for creators in Nigeria, especially when it comes to stories they haven’t had a chance to tell yet.”