 SHAREHOLDERS of Chams Plc on Thursday endorsed the company’s plan to raise new equity funds and deleverage its balance sheet through debt-to-equity conversion as the intelligent business solutions company begins implementation of its medium-term strategic plan. Chams plans to raise N500 million through a rights issue to existing shareholders while also executing debt-equity conversion to boost its working capital and  enhance implementation of its five-year strategic plan. The proposed capital injection had earlier been approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). Addressing the shareholders at the 36th Annual General Meeting (AGM) yesterday, Chairman, Chams Plc, Sir Ademola Aladekomo explained that the company had embarked upon a new five-year strategic plan and vision to grow shareholder value by focusing on African digital solution with emphasis on Nigeria. Aladekomo, who presided over the meeting on behalf of the immediate past Chairman, Dr. Mrs. ‘dere Awosika, who signed the company’s annual report, noted that Chams would take advantage of COVID-19 pandemic to expand its innovative solutions in order to boost income. Shareholders praised the company’s ability to weather the storm despite the tough operating environment and urged the management to ensure proper approach towards the re-financing plan, especially, the need to connect with the major stakeholders in order to exercise the rights issue. A shareholder, Pastor Peter Owolabi, urged the company to encourage the high networth shareholders to take up their rights, and further advising that the company should work hard to pay dividend next year. Another shareholder, Mrs Ayodele Kudaisi, said the company should maximise emerging opportunities in online businesses to boost its income in the domestic and international markets In the review period, the company’s gross profit rose by 29 per cent from N1.01 billion to N0.786 million, total assets was up by 13 per cent from N5.25 billion to N5.95 billion, finance expenses which consist of interests paid on loans and overdraft declined by 94.7 percent, year-on-year due to prudent management. Group Managing Director, Chams Plc, Mr Gavin Young, said the management of the company would continue to explore opportunities to create and improve value for all stakeholders.