Ebonyi State Governor David Umahi and his deputy, Kelechi Igwe, have sent their samples for Covid-19 test to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Abuja. The governor stated this in Abakaliki on Thursday during the swearing-in of some new government officials he appointed. After the swearing-in, the governor said he had to send his samples because some of his officials tested positive for Covid-19, after a budget review meeting, attended by most government functionaries. Umahi, however, did not reveal the identities of those who tested positive. The governor said the result of the test will be out today and promised to keep the people informed of the outcome. He said his administration has come up with new measures to tackle the spread of the virus. Umahi said another meeting to discuss the new plan will be held next week, adding that he may have to attend the meeting virtually, if the result of his test comes out positive. Special Assistant to the Governor on Media and Publicity Francis Nwaze also quoted the governor as saying that he and his deputy have sent their samples to NCDC, Abuja for COVID-19 test. Nwaze added that the result will be announced today. “If we test positive, my deputy governor will carry on with the fight as a frontline worker, but we will be extremely careful and use zoom to do our jobs. No retreat, no surrender. This Covid-19 matter, we will fight it to a conclusive level,” Umahi said. Social media users criticised the governor for sending his samples to Abuja after claiming to have built a world-class laboratory in Ebonyi. It was also learnt on Thursday that Dr. Oluwole Ige, Chief Medical Director of the University of Medical Sciences Teaching Hospital, Akure, has tested positive for COVID- 19. A statement issued by Adeeyo Babatunde on behalf of the chief medical director said the CMD is responding to the treatment. It assured members of staff of the hospital that there was no cause for alarm and advised them to go about their normal duties while they adhered strictly to universal precautions against the COVID-19.