All Progressives Congress (APC) stakeholders in Ekiti State have accused Governor Kayode Fayemi of sponsoring the arrest of Legal Adviser of Ugeli/Arikun ward in Ikere Council Area of Ekiti State, Mr. Sanya Daramola. The stakeholders alleged Daramola was arrested on Thursday by Fayemi’s loyalists led by chairman of Ikere Council Area, Otunba Ayodele Femi after he and other party officials rebuffed the directives to suspend an ex-governor aspirant, Chief Oluwole Oluyede. Oluyede had on Monday survived suspension allegedly orchestrated by Barr. Paul Omotosho-led SWC on the instruction of Fayemi over alleged anti-party activities. Rather than wielding the stick, executive members of his ward  unanimously passed a vote of confidence on him. The stakeholders, under the auspices of Ekiti stakeholders forum, in a statement by its chairman, Prince Bangboye Adegoroye, claimed that victimisation, harassment and arresting party members were being used to deter them from upbraiding Fayemi over his alleged under-performance and impunity. “It has been brought to our notice that the Legal Adviser of Ugeli/Arikun ward in Ikere Local Government, Mr. Sanya Daramola has just been arrested by JKF TokanTokan group of APC,led by the Council Chairman of Ikere Local Government. “His travail is said to have been caused by  the vote of confidence passed by the Ward Executives on Dr. Oluwole Oluyede, who the State Government is said to be desperately planning to suspend from the Party. “We have just learnt from the police station in Ikere where he is being held tha the state Attorney General, Mr. Wale Fapohunda has requested that he is interested in the case and Mr Daramola should be transferred to Ado Ekiti for prosecution by the State for refusing to suspend a very senior member of the party as requested by the Governor,” they said. Adegoroye, who condemned the arrest, called for immediate and unconditional release of the party official, warning the continuous detention of Daramola could cause crisis in the state. “We condemn this act of gangsterism which is fast becoming the modus operandi of Paul Omotoso led TokanTokan Exco, backed by JKF administration. The legality of the constitution of this set of Executive is still in court, but the Government appears set to prefer disorderliness to constituted means of arbitration. “We condemn this in strong terms and call for his immediate release . The only credential that earned  Dr Kayode Fayemi the Governor of Ekiti State during his first coming was his fight for democracy and human rights. “We are shocked that same person now in power has forgotten his background and find pleasure in stifling opposition and harassing everyone found not to be in his corner,” he stressed. The APC chieftain urged the security operatives not to allow themselves to be entangled with Fayemi and his alleged renegades against the people, as such will undermine the trust and confidence that they have for them. But the Governor denied the allegation, describing it as outright falsehood and reckless assassination of character sponsored by unscrupulous and face individuals with the sole aim to tarnish his hard-earned image. The Governor, through his Special Adviser on party matters, Elder Sam Oluwalana, said Daramola was not arrested but only invited by the police for interrogation over alleged forgery. “There was nothing like that. He was just invited. It was just a matter of forgery and it has been resolved. The Attorney General was not involved in anything. Anybody that Dr Fayemi and the Attorney General would know that they would never involved themselves in that kind of things. “It wouldn’t make any sense to arrest our member in jail no matter what. It has been resolved but the group that concocted the lies are hired by the opposition to destabilize party and smear Fayemi character,” he said. 