Ebonyi state Government has reiterated that schools in the state will remain closed following the rising cases of Covid-19 in the state. The Deputy Governor, Kelechi Igwe stated this on Monday in a statement issued on his behalf by the Chief Press Secretary, Monday Uzor. It will be recalled that the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) had announced 108 new cases in the state in the latest report it issued on Sunday night. This brings the total number of cases recorded in the state since the outbreak began to 616 cases. According to the Deputy Governor, the state government is commencing house to house testing in all the 13 local government areas in the state. Mr. Igwe said that at least 1300 persons or 100 in each local government will be drafted to take part in the house to house testing. He said: “As a result of importance attached to this test run, the 13 council Chairmen are by this announcement directed to ensure that a minimum of one hundred persons are made available by each of the councils to participate in the testing exercise. They should also liaise with the state Ministry of Health for the testing procedure” “With the approval of the Governor, the Deputy Governor further directs that schools in the state shall remain closed in the meantime which has become imperative after reviewing the current situation on the spread of the virus within the state”. “Government is irrevocably committed to protecting the lives of school children especially now COVID-19 has escalated into community transmission.” The Deputy Governor advised parents to take this decision in good fate since no drug or vaccine has been globally or nationally certified for the treatment of the deadly virus. He also gave an update on the Governor, David Umahi who has been in isolation after testing positive for the virus. “The good people of Ebonyi State are reassured that Government under the leadership of Engr David Nweze Umahi who is extremely doing well and working so hard for the state from isolation remains resolute in the fight against COVID-19”. “It will be recalled that Ebonyi was one of the first states to lock down its borders, establish isolation and holding centres including the renovation, furnishing and equipping of 13 General Hospitals in the state among other measures to prevent the spread of the virus,” he said. The Governor, according to Mr. Igwe also acknowledged and conveyed his appreciation to all the strata of the society especially the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and other religions bodies for prayers offered for himself and the entire state.