Two medical doctors (consultant psychiatrists), Inechi Mcdonald Chikaodo and Ugwuonye Kingsley have appeared before an Enugu Magistrate Court for alleged stealing. The doctors, both staff of the Federal Neuropsychiatric Hospital, Enugu, were docked on a 4-count charge, in suit number MEN/223c/2020, before Magistrate S.O. Okoro by a prosecuting police officer, Simeon Eze. They were said to have in the year 2014, at the Hospital, conspired among themselves to wit: stealing/forgery and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 494 (a) of the Criminal Code, Cap 30, Vol. II, Revised Laws of Enugu State of Nigeria, 2004. Some of the charges read: “That you Dr. Inechi Mcdonald Chikaodo and Dr. Ugwuonye Kingsley on the same date, place and in the aforementioned magisterial district did steal the sum of N700, 000 (seven hundred thousand naira) property of Ozor Stephen, next of kin to late Ozor Obinna and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 353 (L) of the of the Criminal Code, Cap 30, Vol. II, Revised Laws of Enugu State of Nigeria, 2004. “That you Dr. Inechi Mcdonald Chikaodo and Dr. Ugwuonye Kingsley on the same date, place and in the aforementioned magisterial district did steal the sum of N1, 034,711.00) property of late Ozor Obinna and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 353 (L) of the of the Criminal Code, Cap 30, Vol. II, Revised Laws of Enugu State of Nigeria, 2004. “That you Dr. Inechi Mcdonald Chikaodo and Dr. Ugwuonye Kingsley on the same date, place and in the aforementioned magisterial district did with intent to deceive or acted upon as genuine forged the signature of Stephen Ozor in a purported acknowledgement letter in respect of the sum of N700,000 (seven hundred thousand naira), which you purported to have been signed by him and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 443 (1) of the of the Criminal Code, Cap 30, Vol. II, Revised Laws of Enugu State of Nigeria, 2004.” They pleaded not guilty and elected summary trial. The defence counsel prayed the court to grant them bail in most liberal terms, an application the prosecutor left to the discretion of the court. The Magistrate granted them bail in the sum of N300, 000 each, with one surety in the like sum. He held that “the surety shall be a civil servant of grade level six and above. A source hinted that the money in question was meant for the treatment of a fellow doctor who had kidney disease but later died in Lagos shortly before he could be flown abroad.