Barring any last minute change of events, lawyers across the country will choose new leaders in an election that will commence from 12 midnight today till Thursday. The election is coming amidst fears that till Tuesday afternoon, no credible list of voters in the election has been released; nobody knows the protocol for the election and most importantly, the service providers for the electronic voting have not been disclosed by the Electoral Committee of the NBA (ECNBA). In an interactive session with stakeholders Monday, the chairman of the ECNBA, Mr. Tawo Tawo (SAN) assured members of the NBA that the committee was ready to deliver very credible free and fair elections for the Association. He stated that the platform that would deliver was world class and almost impregnable by those who he described as knocking on the wrong door. He said: “On the success of the election, we are going to deliver a free, fair, credible election for the association. We are aware that other professional bodies are watching us and we believe that at the end of the day, our profession will take its pride of place.” He thanked NBA President, Mr. Paul Usoro for his non-interference in the affairs of the committer and vows to take responsibility for all the actions of the committee. Speaking at the meeting, former President of the NBA, Chief Bayo Ojo (SAN) urged members “to remember that we are in the eyes of the whole world as we go into this election.” He added: “We had criticized other people in the past; it is now left for us to show them how to do it well. Get a credible election, only one winner will emerge from the election. All the contestants should have the spirits of sportsmanship and congratulate the winner after the elections.” Earlier in a chat with The Nation former President of the NBA, Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN) said: “In my life, I have never been desperate about anything; all I have been desperate about is attainment of decency, of true justice and of fairness. I will never be rude to an elder, even if the elder offends me. I am always scared when people meet, you take decisions and some people go out thereafter to arm twist the decisions you have taken. I am scared and I wonder when I see some people talking, I wonder whether the beautiful ones are yet be born. “For the NBA, we have to be careful, not turn the NBA to a typical Nigerian political party, and this is what I am saying, I am so scared. And people can bear testimony to this because when I talk, I give instances. “I have labored so much for the NBA, during the tango between A. B. Mahmoud (SAN) and Chief J-K Gadzama (SAN), the two of them are still alive. Somebody went to court to get the election of AB Mahmoud and his executives nullified; I was the one who galvanized the members of the Board of Trustees (BoT) of the NBA to hold meetings with all the warring factions. “Alh. Abdullahi Ibrahim (SAN) is still alive, Mrs. Priscilla Kuye is still alive, we had about four meetings and invited you to one of the meetings. “The NBA was then in the doldrums, how many people came out then, I called Mr. Supo Ojo, I prayed with him that he should compromise the judgment and he accepted with some conditionalities and thereafter I called A. B. Mahmoud ( SAN) and Chief J-K Gadzama (SAN) to my office in Abuja, they are still alive. We had a closed door meeting, three of us in my office in Abuja for three and half hours, how many of all these people who are shouting and shouting knew about all these? “How many of them took any step, I tried to reconcile them and for the first time in my office and after the meeting, J-K Gadzama told A.B. Mahmoud that this is the leader we recognise at the Bar. He said because of the leader, I call you Mr. President for the first time. How many of these people who are now arm twisting history took steps to reconcile them. “Now at the last election, Mr. Paul Usoro ( SAN) knew the advice I gave him immediately after the elections and now because of the politics of the Bar, people who served under me as President of the NBA deny decisions that we took, some of them are saying no, we didn’t when everything is in black and white. “Because of NBA elections, the Sections that I created, the Sections that have brought up a lot of people, Sections that brought renaissance to the Bar itself, Sections that have molded the lives of so many people and capitulated them, Sections that have brought bread to their tables and butter to their bread, Sections that had enlarged their purses, they are now saying that it was not me who created the Sections. “Records are there, do records lie, those Sections were my own initiatives and I say this, they were there in my manifesto and I ran two NBA Annual General Meetings (AGMs) – Enugu in 2003 and Abuja in 2004 under the two sections –Section on Business Law ( SBL) and Section on Legal Practice (SLP). I remember at Enugu in 2003, Chief Debo Akande stated that the NBA had never seen that type of thing. When we finished our AGM in that hall we all joined hands together, they put me in the centre and they were dancing saying that Wole is a jolly good fellow. “To the glory of God today, I have two sons who are Senior Advocates of Nigeria. You can always see my children always behaving well, no child of mine, no daughter of mine will abuse an elder. Whatever might be the stake, my children are well groomed. I am not desperate about anything; I will not lose my sleep. It is the way you make your bed that will reflect in your sleep, I am not worried. “The decision of Egbe Amofin to adopt Mr. Dele Adesina (SAN) as its candidate for NBA Presidency was taken after several meetings, everybody was there I didn’t participate in it, the chairman of Ibadan branch then was the one conducting the meetings, the meeting decided that the chairmen should constitute themselves to a committee under the anchor ship of chief Niyi Akintola (SAN). “I didn’t participate there; let me say this I want to decline from joining issues with Dr. Tunde Ajibade (SAN). He knew how he met me in my office before the meeting, he knew what he discussed with me and I am too big, I am too proud to the glory of God and I am too high up there to the glory of God, I have heard all the things he has been saying, but I will never join issues with him, I will leave him with his conscience. I leave the young man with his conscience, he knew what transpired between two of us, he knew that he has not been telling the truth about me and he has been taking my own child into controversy of election. “The worst I can say about it is that it is unfair. It is the unkindest cut but I will never join issues with him and I have warned my children that none of them should reply him. I have told people who are close that they should not join issues with him, I leave him with his conscience.” In another development, the Northern Lawyers Forum under their umbrella association ( Arewa Lawyers Forum) have also adopted Mr. Dele Adesina (SAN) as their their candidate for NBA Presidency. Mr. Adesina had been adopted by the Youruba Lawyers Association (Egbe Amofin) as their candidate for lawyers’ election. It is the turn of Egbe Amofin to produce NBA President this time around. A letter addressed to the Secretary of Egbe Amofin, Dr. Wole Akintayo dated July 24, 2020 and signed by the Secretary of Arewa Lawyers Association Mr. Mohammed Monguno reads: “Please refer to your letter dated March 20, 2020 in connection with Egbe Amofin’s adoption of the candidacy of Mr. Dele Adesina (SAN) as the official candidacy of Egbe Amofin Oodua Forum. “We have also perused the Notice of Endorsement attached to your letter under reference on the endorsement of Mr. Dele Adesina (SAN) to contest for the office of the President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) in the July, 2020 election. “We, the Arewa Lawyers Forum, have studied the processes leading to the endorsement as painstakingly stated in the Notice of Endorsement dated March 11, 2020, signed by the Leaders of Egbe Amofin OOdua and branch chairmen to ensure that whoever we endorse is experienced, capable and has the requisite competence to lead the Bar at this moment. “Accordingly, on behalf of the leadership and members of Arewa Lawyers Forum and after a meeting of our Executive Committee, I have the honour to hereby convey our adoption, endorsement, satisfaction and the unanimous acceptance of the candidature of Mr. Dele Adesina (SAN) for the office of the President of the Nigerian Bar Association in the forthcoming July 2020 Election,” Arewa stated.