A businessman,  Captain Hosa Okunbo, has condemned the unruly behaviour by thugs that booed Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki and his entourage at the palace of the Oba of Benin at the weekend. Okunbo, who was linked to the degrading treatment meted out to Obaseki in some reports however, said that a man of his standing would never be a party to any plot to humiliate any governor, past or present. In a statement, Okunbo condemned the incident, adding that his mission to the Oba’s palace last Saturday was completely a political. The statement reads: “There have been reports of an ugly and unfortunate booing incident that took place outside the palace of our revered Royal Father, the Oba of Benin, Ewuare II, on Saturday, July 25, 2020, during the visit of members of the National Campaign Council of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). “The PDP entourage, including the Edo State governor and governorship candidate of the PDP in Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, were reportedly booed while going in and out of the palace by a motley crowd of mostly young boys, according to media reports. “Some members of the crowd who reportedly embarrassed the PDP team and the state governor were said to have been subsequently attacked allegedly by some gun-toting thugs and sustained varied degrees of injuries in the attack. “While I condemn the booing of the governor and the PDP team, and the reprisal attack, I am particularly pained that some ungodly insinuations in some quarters have linked me with the unfortunate saga. It is against this backdrop that I have deemed it necessary to make the following clarifications: “That I was invited to the Palace of the Oba of Benin for a very private ceremony,  which I did not even attend with my friends; and that the private ceremony, which had no bearing at all with politics,  took place hours after the booing incident happened outside the palace. “That I was not privy to the ugly incident during which Governor Godwin Obaseki was reportedly booed. “That as a responsible citizen and elder statesman who respects constituted authorities, I would not subscribe to any act that tends to disrespect or denigrate any constituted authority whether in Edo State or any other state in Nigeria. “That I sincerely frown at the brazen act of disrespect for constituted authorities by the crowd of young men who reportedly became unruly on sighting the entourage of the PDP National Campaign Council and Governor Obaseki at the palace of the Oba of Benin; “That I will never, ever be a party to any plan, plot, action or inaction to embarrass our most revered father, Oba Ewuare II, who is non-partisan; and who plays the role of a father to all sons and daughters of the great Benin Kingdom. “That I was not associated with the activities of the unruly crowd and therefore could not have been sent to the palace by me to embarrass the PDP entourage, including the state governor whom I respect as the number one citizen of the state. “That I have equal measure of respect for other state governors who were on the entourage with Governor Obaseki, some of whom are my personal friends, and could not have encouraged any plot to boo or embarrass them. “That just as I was not privy to the ugly incident outside the palace of the Oba of Benin, our reverend Royal Father, Oba Ewuare II, was also not even aware of what transpired outside until later after he had been briefed about it.”