Some aggrieved leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti have vowed to continue with their court case despite the directive of the National Executive Committee of the party, demanding the immediate withdrawal of all court cases. The NEC, had at its last meeting presided over by President Muhamnadu Buhari, resolved that all matters in court against the party should be withdrawn and threatened to sanction any erring party member that failed to comply with the directive. The APC highest decision-making organ said the directive was imperative to salvage the soul of the party from collapsing, stressing that recalcitrant members would face dire consequences In a related development, the Ekiti State APC stakeholders’ caucus in its meeting last Saturday also resolved that in line with NEC directives all lawsuits against the party at all level should be withdrawn with immediate effect. But, the litigants under the auspices of Ekiti APC stakeholders’ Forum, had remained adamant, insisting that they would not withdraw the court case challenging the validity of the existence of the ward, local government and State Executives of the state chapter. The suit seeking to upturn the structures was filed at the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja by Senator Babafemi Ojudu, Dr. Wole Oluyede, Hon. Oyetunde Ojo, Chief Akin Akomolafe, Engr Ayo Ajibade, Akogun Bunmi Ogunleye, Otunba Ben Oguntuase. The case, which filed at the Federal High Court in Abuja resumed on Monday and adjourned for further hearing by the presiding Judge, Justice Ekwo. In a statement in Ado-Ekiti on Tuesday by its chairman, Mr. Tony Adeniyi and Secretary, Hon. Femi Adeleye, the aggrieved leaders resolved that the pending case should be pursue to a logical conclusion in the interest of the party. Justifying their absence from the Ekiti stakeholders’ Caucus meeting, the aggrieved leaders said they were not invited by the party’s State Working Committee. “we would have loved to be there to present our case but they refuse to invite us and we are not bothered because we know Dr Fayemi do not want genuine reconciliation. “We are ready for genuine and sincere reconciliation where the injustices and illegalities perpetrated by the present leadership will be properly addressed”, they said. The group expressed its love for APC and affirm their disagreement was not personal but patriotic, saying “We do not want to lose elections in Ekiti again. If we allow things to continue the way it is our fate in 2022 will be worse than the first coming of Dr Fayemi.” “Our action is a wake up call. We are also not against our party members holding executive offices. All we are asking for is legality, fairness and justice. If we don’t have all this as well as appreciable performance and inclusiveness we may as well forget 2022,” it added.