The Police on Sunday said it has uncovered plans by members of a notorious cult group to launch a state wide campaign of terror and violence in Ogun on Tuesday, this week. The Police said further that members of the cult group intended to use the said Tuesday to mark their strange calendar Day christened 7/7, where new members would be initiated into the fold. The Police Public Relations Officer in Ogun State, Abimbola Oyeyemi, who disclosed this in a statement, said the cult group also planned to round off the ceremony with violent confrontation with its rival in a manner that could lead to loss of lives and wanton destruction of property in parts of the Gateway State. Abimbola, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), however warned those behind the planned cult meeting, initiation and mayhem to have a rethink or face a ruthless response from the ready – to – strike security agencies already put in place in advance to forestall breach of peace. Abimbola stated: “Intelligence report at the disposal of Ogun State Police Command revealed that members of a notorious cult group are planning to unleash terror and violence on Tuesday 7th of July 2020 across the state in order to mark what they called 7/7. “The report further revealed that members of the group are also planning to use the said date to initiate new members into their fold after which they will engage their rival cult group in a supremacy battle which may lead to loss of life and wanton destruction of property. “In view of this, the command wishes to warn those having such devilish plan to have a rethink and retrace their steps as such move will be met with serious resistance from security agencies. “To this end, all the command’s tactical squads namely SARS, anti cultists, anti kidnapping as well as all the DPOs and Area Commanders have been put on red alert to nip in the bud any act capable of undermining the security of the state. “Anybody who involved him/herself in such act will be made to feel the full weight of the law because the command will not fold its hands while some unscrupulous elements will be making life difficult for law abiding citizens of the state. “The command is also using this medium to appeal to parents and guardians to warn their wards to stay clear of any unlawful gathering on, before and after the said date to prevent had i know situation. “Also, hoteliers are with this release warned not to allow their facilities be used for any cult related gathering as the owner of such facility too will be liable for prosecution. “While assuring members of the public to go about their lawful business without fear of harassment or intimation, the command has rolled out all in its arsenal to deal decisively with anybody who try to breach the relative peace enjoying by the good people of the state.”