Following intensified efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19, the Warri South Council on Friday, ordered the closure of a local transport line in the state, over zero compliance to the safety protocols given by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). The council’s COVID-19 Enforcement Taskforce led by Mr. Elvis Okpako Eboh, also directed the manager of the transport line, to return transport fares of passengers waiting to travel. Neither hand sanitizer nor water and soap, were made available for visitors to the very busy park. The Nation reports that the taskforce kick started the exercise with advocacy, along the Warri-Sapele Road, by the council secretariat. Vehicle owners and passengers seen without face masks were compelled to wear theirs and advised to practice other measures, including physical distancing, given to fight Coronavirus spread. It was observed that worshippers at the Hausa Quarters Mosque, did not comply with the directives during their Friday worship. However, there was reasonable compliance at the Warri Central Mosque. Media adviser to the team, Mr. Anthony Ebule stated that the taskforce is mandated to enforce compliance on the use of hand sanitizers, soap and running water, as well as carry out advocacy on physical distancing in public places. It will be noted that the team kicked off work on Wednesday, July 1, in a bid to clamp down on COVID-19 spread in the Local Government Area, which currently has about 150 of the total confirmed cases of the virus in the state. Members of an Anglican church, St Andrew’s Cathedral, Warri, were said to have been warned sternly by the taskforce, when it visited and saw that the prevention rules were being flouted, on Wednesday. Governor of Delta State, Sen. Ifeanyi Okowa, who is now a COVID-19 patient had in a number of statements appealed to Deltans across the state to adhere to the guidelines issued by NCDC, stressing that the disease is not a “hoax”. Sadly, some residents of Warri and its environs have continued to throw caution to the wind by going to public places without masks, as well as flout the rule on social distancing.