 Embattled Ondo Deputy Governor Agboola Ajayi has called on Speaker Baidele Oleyelogun, to immediately resign from offce. Ajayi, who resigned from the ruling All Progressives Congress(APC) and defected to the opposition Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) has been served notice of impeachment signed by 14 lawmakers. His impeachment process was stalled by the Chief Judge, Justice Olarenwaju Akeredolu who said the lawmakers were yet to fulfil the constitutional processes before calling on her to set up a seven-man investigative panel. Ajayi called on Speaker Oleyelogun to either resign or be removed from office for bringing the Parliament to disrepute. He said the removal of Oleyelogun would preserve the nation’s democratic gains, restore the dignity of the legislature and the principle of separation of power. Speaking through his Media Adviser, Allen Sowore, Ajayi said the decision of Justice Akeredolu in respect of the move to impeach him rekindled the confidence and hope of the people in the judiciary as a bulwark against tyranny, and totalitarianism.  Ajayi noted that Justice Akeredolu left no one in doubt on the need to adhere strictly to the provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended) and due process in modern democracy. He described the decision as a triumph for the rule of law against brigandage and anarchy. According to him: “With the decision, the judiciary of Ondo State has demonstrated its independence and thus made a clear statement about its commitment to secure and sustain the principles and lofty ideals of our constitutional democracy. “We are reminded of the triumph of the human spirit across the age against totalitarianism and encouraged to bring to live the progressive provisions of our constitution that are antidotes to satanic demagoguery and maximum leadership. “The deputy governor is humbled by the epochal decision, and reinvigorated to continue to stand for the good of the people as arrow head of the move to return government to where it rightly belongs – the people of Ondo state.”