Tell us about yourself. What is your name? How was childhood? Where were you born? I’m an ordinary man but my first name is extra. Torkuma Davies. My childhood was unique, colorful and adventurous. I was born in Kano state Nigeria You won a competition instituted by D’Banj. Could you tell us about it? Yes. In 2016. I had sent in my song to the platform and won by merit. The track was titled, “check your alert” and the video was shot by Dbanj and the platform. I was the first winner actually on the platform. In 2018, I performed at the One Music One Sound Fest in Dubai courtesy of the platform. It was a huge learning curve for me as an artiste and lessons were learned. You were in the UK recently and toured with your music? How did that happen? My UK Tour  was as a result of a street rally I did in the Federal Capital Territory for the then released single, “Fairly Used Boyfriend.”  This gathered attention enough to be in the news as well as popular blogs around the country and I was contacted by some event managers in the UK. I ended touring 5 cities. Are there new releases in the coming months? Yes, my EP is dropping on the 1st of August. Titled “Crème-de-la-crème.” What do you hope to achieve with your music? Who is your target audience? I intend to “flip the switch.” Music, in my country, sounds generic these days. Everyone seems to be stuck up on one particular genre and thus losing originality. “Creme de la creme” portrays my artistic versatility. My target audience is the future. Where do you see yourself in the next 5 years? Sipping on something really expensive, reminiscing on how far I’ve come. What other artistes have you worked with? As a songwriter, Dbanj, TerrytheVoice, Wizkid (but I guess it never reached him), Cheeky Chizzy, Dammy Krane ( basically just vibing). A lot more but I’m careless. Tell us about your new EP. My EP is like a mall. You get what you want if you look in the right places. How is your music received in Nigeria? The reception is great but like anywhere else “politricks” rivals talent. When do you release an album? The first of August and it’s been a long time coming