Operatives attached to the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), Lagos Police Command have arrested a cab driver and three others for alleged armed robbery. Andrew Valentino, 38, a driving with one of the taxi hailing services was alleged to have used his car for one-chance robbery with Tony Onwoluwe, 29, Adesoji Oluwafemi, 36 and Idoko Michael, 33 as accomplices. According to police sources, the four men used a jack to dispossess their victims of money and other valuables in Lekki. Valentino claimed to have participated in the robbery to raise money to pay the vehicle owner for replacing the car’s knocked engine. According to him, Idoko was the one who lured him into one-chance robbery, adding that they usually operated between Lekki and Ajah. He claimed to have met Idoko at a bar he sat after his car broke down. “I had no money to fix the car and went to a nearby bar to drink. I was still at the bar till late hours after people have gone. It was then that Idoko approached me to know why I was still waiting. “I explained my situation to him and he promised to assist him make more money through the car when it is fixed. “We later met at another bar and he told me how we can use the car for one-chance operation. Immediately, I called the owner of the car to inform him about the car and he promised to get a new engine from Ladipo Market. “He did and I also promise to pay him back the money we used to buy the engine aside from the normal installments I remit. We both signed agreement to that effect. “After we had fixed the car, I went back to Idoko that was how we started the operation. We always operate on Ajah Lekki Road. Adesoji and Onwoluwe joined us later in the deal,” he said. Valentino said they usually picked passengers at Ajah going to Lekki or any other part of state only to scare them with the jack they held like a gun. “We collect whatever the person is having with him or her push them out of the vehicle and zoom off,” he said. Idoko, a barber, said he took to robbery after his shop at Ikate was demolished. “I had nothing doing anymore and so, I came up with the plan of one-chance business. The only problem I had was car, but when I found someone who had one I was excited. “Velentino and I would sit at the back as passengers, Oluwafemi drove and Onwoluwe held the tyre jack at the front sit as if he was also a passenger. Once a passenger enters, we identify an isolated area and Omwoluwe would use a hammer to hit the jack as if he was cocking a gun and we then ask the victim to submit their valuables.”