As several nations and organisations across the world focus on the impact of the pandemic on the global economy, FirstBank, Nigeria’s first generation bank is also paying attention to those it considers to be the worst-hit. The bank is promoting e-learning for over one million students in Nigeria. With the indefinite closure of schools, FirstBank is enabling the education of 1 million Nigerian students through an innovative eLearning solution which will drive sustainable efforts towards improving education for all. There are about 1.5 billion children across the globe who have been forced to stay at home in order to contain the pandemic. FirsBank has already forged a formidable partnership with Robert & John, IBM and Curious Learning to ensure the e-learning initiative moves across the country swiftly. Robert & John is offering Roducate, an eLearning solution, with a government accredited curriculum based contents ranging from primary to the tertiary level. Roducate is available both online and offline (on preloaded devices) for those with limited or no access to the internet, making for a revolutionary e- learning experience. The partnership with IBM, offers the Digital-Nation Africa program, an online youth-focused learning programme that enables innovation and skills development on emerging technologies through focus areas such as Artificial Intelligence, Coding, Cloud, Internet of Things, Blockchain, Data Science and Analytics, and Cybersecurity. Also, the partnership with Curious Learning offers academic based contents for pre-school and early learning aged 3-8, using fun and self-guided learning apps to help them with their cognitive skills at a fundamental level. With these three partners already on board, the program seems to be in full swing, but for this initiative to be more inclusive across the country, the aid of similarly interested parties is required. Thus FirstBank is reaching out to potential partners to help accelerate the course of the e-learning initiative. This is a perfect opportunity for those who wish to help fuel continuous learning for Nigerians even with the nation-wide movement restrictions. FirstBank is calling for individuals and organisations to donate and contribute in whatever way they can, be it resources or innovative ideas to enable the education of one million students in Nigeria, now and beyond the global health crisis. FirstBank is committed to putting Nigerians first and through this initiative, the leading financial institution is ensuring that children are not left out of the national fight against the pandemic.