Despite fears being expressed in some quarters that the Asset Management Corporation Nigeria (AMCON) may not be able to recover its over N5trillion debt stocks, from available information, the Corporation feels strongly that the recovery process is grinding slowly but surely. In this report Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf and Charles Okonji examine the issues Last year, during the quarterly briefing of the Ministry of Finance, attended by agencies under the supervision of the Ministry, the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed charged the management of the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) led by Mr. Ahmed Kuru, Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer to do everything with the powers of its newly amended Act to recover the huge debt owed the Corporation by a few individuals and organisations in the country. While commending AMCON on the national assignment, Mrs. Ahmed, however, said she expects a lot more from the Corporation especially now that President Muhammadu Buhari has signed the amended 2019 AMCON Act into law, which gives additional powers to AMCON to deal with the obligors. “AMCON must ensure that the debts are recovered before the sunset, which is around the corner. If AMCON at sunset AMCON fails to recover the huge bad loans, the debt will become government problem, which the government is not willing to carry. Therefore, everything must be done to ensure that AMCON recovers the debt from the obligors because it will have a huge positive impact on the economy,” the minister said. AMCON not at ease To enable the Corporation achieve its mandate, the federal government empaneled the Inter-Agency Presidential Committee, which includes the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC); the Nigeria Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU); Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC); Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN); Ministry of Justice; ICPC to work with AMCON to expand the dragnet of the debtors by looking at those who facilitated the loans on the side of the banks and those who benefited from the proceeds. But one year after the Minister gave that charge, there are fears in some quarters that the Corporation may not be able recover the humongous debts ahead of the Corporation’s sunset in 2022. Although a reliable source at the Corporation who asked not to be named said the federal government has been silent on the wind up date as the amended act makes no room for such, AMCON’s Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer Ahmed Kuru alluded to the fear in Abuja during a seminar for Corporation’s Receivers/Receiver Managers in General Enforcement held recently. Kuru, who was represented at the event by Group Head, Resolution Strategy, Aliyu Kalgo, explained that if at sunset, AMCON was unable to recover its outstanding debt of over N5 trillion, the debt burden would automatically become the debt of the Federal Government for which taxpayers’ monies will be used to settle in the long run. The AMCON boss said the implication of such failure would be that Nigerians will be made to pay for the recklessness of only a few individuals who have continued to take advantage of the loopholes in the laws to escape their moral and legal obligations to repay their debts. AMCON’s despondency nothing to cheer about In the view of Muyiwa Balogun, a legal consultant and senior partner, Olaniwun Ajayi -LP, who said this, noted that AMCON still owed the Central Bank of Nigeria N4.5tn, and was also battling with N1.7tn of assets under litigation. Balogun who made a case in support of the 2019 Amendments while addressing external solicitors and AMPs of AMCON in Abuja, painted a gloomy picture of what could further befall the already challenged Nigerian economy if the debts were not recovered in good time before the sunset period. According to the senior lawyer, given the fact that the debt would eventually become the burden of the federal government and by extension taxpayers, he argued that there was the need for speed in recovery just as all hands should be on deck to ensure that AMCON recovered the debt as mandated by the new amendments. ‘AMCON has recovered over N1.2trillion so far’ Speaking in an interview with our correspondent, AMCON Head, Corporate Communications, Jude Nwauzor, said the story is not all gloom. According to him, in naira and kobo terms, “AMCON has recovered above N1.2trn just as it has sold assets worth about N500bn and has resolved close to 5000 Eligible Bank Assets (EBAs). The Corporation has paid over N2trn to the CBN. Recall that AMCON acquired over 12,000 nonperforming loans (NPLs) worth N3.7 trillion from 22 banks and injected N2.2 trillion as financial accommodation to 10 banks in order to prevent systemic failure.” As to what extent the revised AMCON Act has helped the Corporation thus far, the agency’s spokesman said, “With the amended Act, which President Muhammadu Buhari signed into law last year, AMCON can now activate its winding up and bankruptcy proceeding in its debt recovery drive in line with Section 52 of the AMCON Act, which provided for winding up of a debtor’s company upon a demand notice for a liquidated sum owed and failure to pay in full within 30 days, thus, making the inability to pay a debt a ground for winding up under the AMCON Act, which is similar to Section 408 (d) of CAMA.” Besides, he said, AMCON can make use of receivership, as a debt recovery strategy, which is arguably the most effective debt recovery tool within the current insolvency/debt recovery regime. “This is primarily because of the control, which it gives to the debenture holder/creditor over the assets, or the assets and business of the debtor company. By virtue of Section 393(4) of CAMA, upon appointment of a Receiver and Manager, the powers/control of the directors over the debtor company becomes immediately suspended. “Even where the Receiver is not empowered to act as Manager, he retains executive control over such portion of the company’s assets, which have been charged. AMCON can apply the powers of receivership, with respect to AMCON Receivership, the AMCON Act has further extended the powers/rights of AMCON-appointed Receivers beyond the scope of CAMA and the general principles on receivership. Firstly, pursuant to Section 48(3) of the AMCON Act, the Receiver’s powers to assume control over the assets of the companies not limited to the assets, which have been charged under the Eligible Bank Asset (EBA), but also included unpledged/uncharged assets.” This extraordinary provision, he noted, “bestows a far-reaching advantage on AMCON in the realisation of outstanding EBAs by enabling AMCON to sustain maximum pressure on the debtor company (including its officers and shareholders) and increasing the pool of assets from which AMCON may realise the indebted sum, just to mention a few.” While speaking on the synergy of cooperation  between the Corporation and other intergovernmental agencies in AMCON’s recovery drive, Nwauzor recalled that , “On September 16, 2019 the Presidency graciously constituted a committee, which it christened ‘Inter-Agency Committee for the Recovery of AMCON Debts.’ The committee is comprised of eight key government agencies – Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC); Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU); AMCON; Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC); Federal Ministry of Justice (FMoJ); Economics and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC); the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Department of State Services (DSS).” The terms of reference of the Committee amongst others, he stressed, is to review the status of the debts owed AMCON as well as adopt measures towards the recovery of the debts through criminal prosecutions under relevant applicable laws. “At the inaugural meeting of the committee, which held on October 8, 2019, a Sub-Committee charged with the responsibility for detailed review of accounts of debtor referred to it by AMCON was set-up. At the instance, a few strategic accounts are being reviewed by the Sub-Committee using an unconventional approach towards the recovery of the debts by preferring criminal charges against the obligors where criminal infractions have been identified. So, it has helped our recovery efforts.”