The Constitution of a country is not just another legal instrument. It is a binding force; the authority under which every citizen,  including the leaders, must bow. The 1999 Constitution spells this out clearly in Section 1 (1): This Constitution is supreme and its provisions shall have a binding force on all authorities and persons throughout the Federal Republic of Nigeria”. The provision presupposes that no matter the position a person holds, he cannot be more powerful than the Constitution. It is not for nothing that very high public officers swear by the Constitution before taking office. For the purpose of this article, we will limit ourselves to the offices of the president and governor. The president and governor cannot take office until they have sworn by the Constitution as per  Sections 140 (1) and (2) and 185 (1) and (2). They take the oath to uphold the Constitution at all times. As we know, the Constitution was drafted by legal minds and not by spirits. At the time of its making, the framers would have looked at what obtained elsewhere in discharging that duty.  Even though, they might have made some projections to see what issues can crop up in subsequent years and how they can be tackled, there is no way they could have comprehended the enormity of those future challenges. This is why the Constitution is not a perfect document, though superficially, it looks complete because of the wide range of items contained therein. The little things which its framers never foresaw creep up once in a while to unsettle the polity. We witnessed this when former President Umoru Yar’Adua took ill in 2010,  with his deputy, Dr Goodluck Jonathan prevented from taking over because the necesaary constitutional provision was not activated before his principal went into isolation. The incapacitated president continued to rule by self-appointed proxies while the one constitutionally empowered to do so, though fit and firm, watched helplessly as usurpers took over. It took the intervention of the National Assembly to come up with the Doctrine of Necessity to break the logjam. The constitutional crisis caused by Yar’Adua’s long absence from home then was self inflicted. It was a deliberate ploy by some people to deny Jonathan his constitutional right to take charge of affairs in the wake of Yar’Adua’s indisposition. The nation is expected to have learnt a lesson from that, but it seems we have not, with what is playing out in Ondo State where Governor Rotimi Akeredolu aka Aketi is down with the Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19). Before he took ill, he and his deputy, Agboola Ajayi, had parted ways because of their irreconciliable political differences. Few days ago,  Ajayi defected from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on which platform he is seeking to challenge Aketi for the governorship job of the state in October if he gets the party’s ticket. Aketi too has since declared his second term bid, collected his party’s form and boasted that no matter the mode of primary (direct or indirect), he will get the ticket. He told reporters at the State House, Abuja, where he went to inform the President of his second term bid: “whichever one you want to adopt, direct or indirect, Aketi is a goal”. Aketi is not your archetyphal politician. He is one with what people call a second address – that is a job to return to after his political odyssey. He is  a lawyer, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) at that, and a former president of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA). With his  pedigree,  it should be a given that he would uphold the Constitution and also take the lead in educating his fellow-governors, many of who believe that they are lords unto themselves, on the dangers of constitutional breaches. But what do we have? An antithesis of a governor, who should be an exemplar in constitutional matters. Without thinking of where he is coming from, Aketi  has allowed politics to get the better of him. Must the Constitution be sacrificed on the altar of politics? Aketi fought for the preservation of the Constitution during his tenure as NBA president.  If he could do that then, why is he finding it difficult to do so now? That Ajayi has defected to PDP is not enough reason to deny the deputy governor the constitutional right to lead the state where the governor is indisposed. Aketi should not destroy the reputation  he has built over the years as a fighter for the common good of the people and the supremacy of the Constitution because of politics. What is it with politics that it turns the heads of good and principled men when they get into public office? If Aketi was not the governor and something like this is happening in his dear state, he will be among those calling on the governor to comply with the Constitution and allow the deputy governor to take charge. This is why it beats me hollow that he is finding it hard to do what he has been preaching over the years. It only shows that it is easy to be a critic outside government,  but once inside, critics become like any other politician ready to do anything to retain power even in breach of the Constitution. We no longer need to be told that COVID-19 is not a death sentence. Having been living with it for the past six months, we have seen that it is not. Many have survived it and we pray that Aketi also survives it. Mercifully, he said on Monday that he returned negative after two consecutive tests, meaning that he is now free of the virus.  In the meantime, he should do the right thing while he is in self isolation and that is allow his deputy to run things in his absence. His fear that Ajayi may rock the boat if allowed to act is unfounded. Political differences between a governor and his deputy, are not grounds for disallowing the deputy from running a state when the governor is indisposed. If they were, the Supreme Court would have said so in the case of President Olusegun Obasanjo and Vice President Atiku Abubakar. What should be of paramount interest to Aketi now is to recover fully from COVID-19. He should concentrate on his treatment and hand over state matters, for now, to those who are fit, strong and healthy. The Coronavirus Disease, for the sake of emphasis, is not a joke. We have heard its story from people like Governors Nasir El-Rufai (Kaduna), Bala Muhammed (Bauchi), Okezie Ikpeazu (Abia), Seyi Makinde (Oyo), and former presidential aide Doyin Okupe, a medical doctor,  among others, who survived the disease. Aketi’s fellow-governors who had the disease allowed their deputies to be in charge in their absence. That is how it should be. As I write this, deputies, who someone once derisively referred to as spare tyres, are managing affairs in Benue, Delta and Ebonyi, where the governors are undergoing treatment for COVID-19. So, Aketi cannot hide under what is not constitutionally provided for to deny Ajayi his right. Let him put their differences aside and follow the nation’s organic laws. It will cost Aketi nothing to do that. Except there is something to it that the public does not know. Meanwhile,  the battle has opened on another front, with 14 members of the House of Assembly serving Ajayi an impeachment notice. Will he survive the onslaught?