Gunmen have stormed Gudi, the ancestral home town of Nasarawa Governor, Abdullahi Sule, in Akwanga local government, where they killed two persons and abducted a house wife. Our correspondent gathered former Minister of Information, Labaran Maku’s nephew, Mr Salisu Usman was kidnapped and later killed. His wife was abducted while a a 400- level student of Usmanu Danfodio University,Sokoto Sa’adatu Usman was also killed during the operation. The Nation also gathered the gunmen took away the immigration officer and his wife before they later killed him, fueling speculations he might have been struggling with them. The scene of the incident is not far away from the railway and the Governor’s farm gate in Gudi where a detachment of Police officers are stationed. But they could not help the situation or resist the gunmen. It was gathered the operation occurred around 8pm on Tuesday. Our correspondent, who visited the scene of the incident, gathered the gunmen stormed the residence of late Salisu Usman, an immigration officer, who is the immediate elder brother to Labaran Maku and shot sporadically. It was leant they killed late Usman Salisu and his younger sister Sa’adatu Usman before taking away wife of the late immigration officer. Speaking to our correspondent, father of the victims, retired ASP Usman Salisu, said the gunmen scaled the fence to gain access before firing three shots at the Late Sa’adatu through her window. “I was on the dinning table eating when I heard the first gun shot, second shot then third, as a police officer, I concluded these are robbers. Then shortly I heard my children screeming with their late sister in a pool of blood” “I quickly put a call to one of my friends, who is also a retired police officer. But before the police came, they had killed my daughter and went away with my son, Usman Salisu who is an Immigration officer and his wife before they later killed him,” Usman said. When contacted, Comptroller of Immigration in the state, Zainab Lawal, confirmed the incident. “Nigeria Immigration Officer, (NIS) Superintendent Salisu Usman and his wife was kidnapped at gunpoint and he was later killed while his sister was shot on the spot which led to her death immediately,” Lawal said. The Police spokesperson in the state, ASP Ramhan Nansel, did not respond to phone calls and has not returned calls as of the time of filing this report.