 Parents have been advised to help their young children improve their writing skills while schools remain closed due to the Coronavirus pandemic. This was as primary and secondary school pupils who participated in the fifth Rising Stars Writing Competition and Awards (RSWCA) were praised by the organisers (The Writers’ Corner) sponsors of the competition (Greenlife Pharmaceuticals) for putting in good quality poetry and short story entries while cooped up at home during the pandemic. Speaking during a virtual briefing to announce winners of the competition, Head of Human Resources and Public Relations, Greenlife Pharmaceuticals Mrs. Amaka Nwosisi said encouraging children to write helps them improve. “It is actually a very good thing that children are encouraged to write.  They start to shed off a lot of things – sorrows, negative things, that they learn from the internet. They are able to put their thoughts down.  Even as adults, when you write, you have to research. “This competition has spread further.  I congratulate you, Uche Udoji (coordinator) for this.  It cuts across all kinds of schools; it shows that every child has an opportunity to write and succeed in writing.  Speaking on behalf of my directors, we are happy to sponsor this,” she said. Also speaking, Mr. Ebuka Chukwuka, Executive Director, Greenlife Pharmaceuticals, called the organisers to enhance the online offerings of the competition so more pupils could write, especially using the pandemic as a subject.  Announcing reward for the winners and their schools, RSWCA Project Coordinator, Mrs. Uche Udoji, said the works of the 10 winners would be published on the writers’ corner website as well as in hard copy as an anthology. Due to the pandemic, she said the prize giving event would be held in individual schools that produced the winners. In the Short story category (primary), Zoe Onyeke-Atobore, a Year 5 pupil of St. Saviours School, Ikoyi, Lagos, came first; Chikamara Okpala of Divine Offspring International School, Lagos, was second; and Olaere Demilade of The Livingsprings Schools, Awoyaya Lagos came third. However, the secondary school produced no first and second positions; but Chukwukanyima Ugo-Ogoke, an SS3 pupil of Marywood Girls College, Ebute Metta Lagos, came third. In poetry (primary category), Morenikejimi Reni Anjorin of St. Saviour’s School Ikoyi Lagos came first; followed by Kenechukwu Anthony Azuike of Sunnyfields Primary School, Ikeja and Arifeoluwa Benson of St. Saviour’s School, Ikoyi in the second and third positions. In Poetry, secondary category, Modebelu Ikeoluwa a JSS3 pupil of Holy Child Girls College, Lagos won; while Angel Ifeanyi-Obi an SS2 pupil of Bloombreed Schools, Port Harcourt; and Enang Idara, a JSS 2 pupil of Redeemer’s International Secondary School, Lagos, were first and second runners up. 