China again? I almost screamed when I learned of an outbreak of Bubonic plague in a Mongolian region of this giant Asian country. It was in the O-Level health science class of Mr S.O Kolade of Olivet  Baptist High School, Oyo, that I first learned about the Bubonic plague which killed more than half of Europe’s population as a result of the  outbreak of the pandemic in October 1347. With controversy about which  country brought the new Coronavirus tilting towards China, another Bubonic plague pandemic originating again from China makes that country a leprous nation. I have had no sleepless night over the new Coronavirus or COVID-19, although I have heard about the look- alike symptoms (See CORONAVIRUS: LOOK ALIKE SYMPTOMS JOIN THE LEXICON in www.olufemi kusa.com). I dread the mere thought of the Bubonic plague. About  three times or so, I have mentioned here how we Nigerians are toying with a potential holocaust without realising we are. Sicilians knew better in year 1347 when 12 ships from the Black Sea docked in the Messina. Many of the sailors had died during the voyage. And the survivors of a horrifying disease lay prostate, covered with black boils which oozed blood and pus. They had all been cut down by Bubonic plague which rats and fleas had brought on board. The ships were sent out of the harbour. But this was an exercise in futility. The bacterium which causes Bubonic plague had traveled to town from China! Within five years, Bubonic plague wiped out between 20 and 25 million people in Europe (the population of today’s Lagos mega city), which was estimated at about 33 percent of Europe’s population at that time. But modern research would appear to be suggesting that although the calamity came through India, China and Persia, the pathogens existed in Europe as early as 3,000 B.C . Today, there are more fertile grounds for the occurrence and spread of Bubonic plague on a scale far bigger than that of COVIC-19. In Nigeria, we compete with rats for living space in our houses, offices, hospitals, restaurants and food markets. A specie of rats followed by fleas may cause Bubonic plaque if they and the fleas are infected by germs which cause the disease. So, I have tried since the 1970s to keep rats off my residence. If you visit me at home, you will think I am cash-loaded because I tiled the pillars which extend out of the roof of the building. I had to do that when I discovered that cats were pursuing rats on the cement pillars into the ceiling from where they found their way to other parts of the house. And when they resorted to making new passages by chewing mosquito nets, I doubled the nets. I went a step further when they again bore holes through the reinforcement. This time, I placed rat poison in about 50 locations in the house and on its grounds every month. That gave me peace. If the rat menace did not stop, I would have lined the building all round with one foot length tiles beneath the ground floor widow level. I wish everyone would try periodically to kill rats in and around the home. It would save our country the trauma of another pandemic. Bubonic plaque is deadlier than COVIC-19. The disease often presented at the outset as swellings, as big as small apples or eggs in the groin or armpits! Then, the swelling oozed blood and pus. Predictably these symptoms were succeeded by fever, diarrhoea, headaches, pains…and death, if the infection got out of hand in the lymphatic system and spread into the blood stream and lungs. So deadly was this communicable disease that healthy people who went to bed at night could be found dead in the morning. The germ which causes the ‘plague, as the disease is now known, was discovered by biologist Alexander Yersin towards the end of the 19th century to be caused by yersina pestis, a bacillus carried about by infected fleas and rats. So poor and loveless were human relations in the pandemic which killed humans and animals alike that doctors declined to treat the sick and priests denied the dead the last rites. Corpses were thrown into deep pits which rapidly filled up. Where limbs stuck out from overfilled pits, dogs pulled out the bodies and they and vultures had a field day, only to be infected as well and die. For survival, the uninfected population kept infected persons in isolation centres, practised social distancing, wore nose and mouth guards, socks and hand gloves. The star survivours were four thieves who have a message for us in modern pandemics… Go natural. They wore no masks or nose guards or gloves. They invaded homes when someone had been infected and died, abandoned by relatives who fled to  avoid contamination. They searched pockets and safes for money, jewelry and other valuables. A judge who was asked to jail them for theft and allied crimes struck a deal with them…if they shared their survival secret, he would let them go. They did. According to Wikipedia, their  secrets were known by different names, including ‘four thieves vinegar’, ‘Marseille vinegar’, ‘Marseilles remedy’, ‘prophylactic vinegar’, ‘vinegar of the four thieves, etc. The thieves said the mother of one of them was a herbalist, who infused some herbs in vinegar and gave it to them to drink and to rub on their bodies. What a helpful message for our time. In the new Corona- Virus era ,and during an experience of COVIC-19 look-alike symptoms (Please check CORONA VIRUS: LOOK-ALIKE SYMPTOMS JOIN THE LEXICON, in www.olufemikusa.com), I availed myself of the support of these herbs. Last Friday, I shared some of the ideas with a group of my former colleagues at The Guardian newspaper, who paid me a visit at home. The rats were gone, and they had no idea why the pillars were tiled. As we combat COVIC-19 as best as we can, borrowing isolation, social distancing, nose and mouth guards e.t.c. from ancient wisdom, we should not forget the remedy of the four thieves…herbs infused in vinegar…and the fact that the Chinese themselves have reported an outbreak of Bubonic plague, however mild and well-contained! That disease got to Europe and North Africa through the trade routes of those days and the chief transport mode, ships. Today, air travel has collapsed travel time and geometrically multiplied human traffic across national borders. The Chinese are in Africa. There are probably more Chinese in Nigeria than in the rest of Africa. There are too many rats in Nigeria living with people. Our medical facilities were inadequate, to say the least, even before the COVIC-19 pandemic. We are probably luckier than people in other countries because our diet, relatively speaking, is still wholesome and about 80 percent of the population still rely on herbs for their health and well being.