 A Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship aspirant, Dr. Eddie Olafeso, has vowed not to step down for the defected Ondo State Deputy Governor, Agboola Ajayi or any other aspirant. Olafeso said no party leader would ask him to step down because such move would wreak havoc on the PDP and deny it the chances of winning the governorship election.  Ajayi defected recently from the All Progressives Congress (APC) to the PDP ahead of the July 22,  primary. Speaking against the background of reports that some party chieftains are inducing the aspirants  with money to step down and pave way for Ajayi to emerge as the consensus candidate, Olafeso said nobody has approached him and vowed that he would rebuff such move. Olafeso said “it is too late to be talking about consensus candidate. I fear it might not be possible at this moment to placate any of the aspirants to withdraw from the race that they have spent several millions of Naira. For us, having gotten this far, we are going to sail through the Red Sea and get to the other side of paradise.” The former National Vice Chairman of the PDP in Southwest said he could not understand what is so special about Ajayi’s defection to the PD. “Is it the failed promise that 26 law makers  in the State House of Assembly and cabinet members would defect to the PDP along with him, or  because of his intellectual capacity or his political clout or the challenges of integrity and character he’s  carrying  from where he’s coming?”  The Okitipupa-born politician said he was optimistic that he would emerge winner of the primary, irrespective of the number of aspirants from his local government and the South Senatorial District. He said: “So far the election is free and fair we are going to win. I have paid my dues in the PDP. I am not an interloper. I was the State Secretary of the party between 2006 and 2007. I was Commissioner for Information in Ondo State from 2007 to 2009. I was the Secretary of the PDP National Convention and served as National Vice Chairman of PDP Southwest during which the PDP won the governorship election in Oyo State. “If I win the party’s ticket and eventually elected governor, we will bring redemption and leadership to the Sunshine state. We will hit the ground running from the first day in office through the implementation of our programmes which include provision of healthcare delivery, infrastructural development and introduction of mechanised farming in the state. We will build an economy that is sustainable, that will make Ondo State self sufficient without relying on Federal allocation.” 