A Chieftain of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Ekiti State, Otunba Olusegun Agbalajobi has said Governor Kayode Fayemi’s administration may be the worst in the history of the state with its alleged underperformance. Agbalajobi alleged that the Fayemi-led second term administration has become one of the biggest disasters that have befallen Ekiti since its creation in 1996 considering the lacklustre leadership being exhibited in piloting the affairs of the state. In a statement on Wednesday in Ado-Ekiti, Agbalajobi said that Governor Fayemi has made a disappointing showing within the two years in the saddle in contrast with the performance of his predecessors, describing him as “an incurable failure par excellence”. The former governorship aspirant alleged that Fayemi had pulled the gear of the progress of the state to reverse mode, saying his frequent absence from the state has further compounded the issue as it adversely impacted on the fulcrums governance and development in Ekiti. Agbalajobi alleged that there was lack of governance in the state, describing the Fayemi-led government’s performance as abysmal monumental failure, adding that all indicators of good governance in the last two years were in the negative mode. The APC chieftain said there is no better indications of Fayemi’s monumental failure than the deplorable roads, youth unemployment, moribund health and educational system, non-payment of gratuities to pensioners and host of others. “It is a universal statement that the essence of government is to provide infrastructure and other components of social amenities as well as create jobs but it is quite disheartening that Ekiti people are being neglected in terms of good governance. “It’s crystal clear that the hope the people of the state had in APC has been ruined with Fayemi-led government’s poor performance. Our People are suffering in the street. Youths are disillusioned, widows are wallowing in abject poverty and pensioners are being subjected to untold hardship and agony”. He added that Fayemi-led government had no prospect to impact positively on the people in terms of good governance, saying its five pillar of governance were only being implemented in the theoretical realm. Agbalajobi noted that Ekiti would have witnessed meaningful socio-economic development and growth if Governor Fayemi had concentrated his nerves towards bringing new lease of life to the masses rather than scheming to destroy his benefactors. Countering Agbalajobi’s position, the Special Assistant on Media and Public Communication to the Governor, Mr Segun Dipe, said the criticism was a crass display of viciousness and ignorance. Dipe said the criticism showed the sheer desperation of Agbalajobi to pull down Fayemi-led administration at all cost, adding that no amount of blackmail will distract Governor Fayemi from effecting socio-economic development in the state. “I don’t blame Agbalajobi for not seeing the good work Governor Fayemi is busy doing because he is an outsider and he had lost touch with what’s happening in the state. I want him to call his people to tell him the situation of things. And I believe he would be ashamed with their responses. “How could a normal being labeled fayemi’s goverment a failure when the health sector has been reinvigorated, education taking its pride of place, infrastructure and basic amenities taking good shape and the economy improving markedly,” he asked.