Strong real estate brands that will have lasting impact must be built on seven pillars, a real estate strategist Femi Austine has stated. Austine, who believes real estate players are just scratching potentials in the industry, identified public perception as the strongest pillar for strong brands. The prime mover of Real Estate investors’ platform said: “No matter how good and reliable your product is, it’s not good enough until the public deems it fit to associate with it.” He demonstrated this as Chief Strategist for DPKay Homes and Property Limited when he led the team to overcome wrongful execution of court order by AMCON on one of its properties on Lekki Epe Expressway. The Lagos Wealth Summit 2018 keynote speaker at the University of Lagos recalled the victory with great relish. “A brand is like a building; it takes years of experience to plan and then to build, but it doesn’t take so much effort to bring down a brand with one terrible event. “This is why we have to let the public know that it was a wrongful execution so as to retain integrity we have built over the years. And we thank God for the victory,” he stated. Emphasising the needs for integrity in the business, Austine said: “To build a last longing real estate brand, first, you must be a law abiding player. ‘’The authenticity of your property must not be compromised. Your legal team must be extremely sound and be proactive. ‘’A land without a title is like a company without a CAC certificate; People don’t want to associate with that except for a few friends and family who probably do not know the adverse effect”. Others pillars, according to him, are strategic positioning of properties; excellent team of architects and engineers; strategic partnerships and unveilings to aid marketing and sales intentions; consistent customer relationship and retention programme and top notch account cum administration policy. On potentials in the sector, the founder of The Femi Autsine Company, an academy for human capital development, said: “We are yet to have a player whose pillars are in complete measure in view of the seven pillars. “We are still scratching the surface in the real estate space in Africa but there have been progressive developments over time.