The Federal Government on Monday urged newly appointed members of the governing councils of 13 Federal universities established by former President Goodluck Jonathan’s administration to block the loopholes where their internally generated revenue (IGR) is frittered. The government also advised members of the governing councils to present ideas that will shore up the universities’ revenue base. Education Minister Adamu Adamu stated this on Monday at the inauguration of the governing councils in Abuja. The universities with new Governing Council members are: Federal University, Lokoja, Kogi State; Federal University of Lafia, Nasarawa State; Federal University Kashere, Gombe State; Federal University, Wukari, Taraba State; Federal University, Dutsin-Ma, Katsina State and Federal University, Dutse, Jigawa State. Others are: Alex Ekwueme Federal University, Ndufu Alike, Ebonyi State; Federal University, Oye-Ekiti, Ekiti State; Federal University, Otuoke, Bayelsa State; Federal University, Birnin-Kebbi, Kebbi State; Federal University Gusau, Zamfara State; Federal University, Gashua, Yobe State and Federal University of Health Sciences, Otukpo, Benue State. Adamu advised the governing councils to ensure transparency, probity and due process in the selection and appointment of their principal officers for the best candidates to get the jobs. “It is on your shoulders that the efforts of the government to improve the quality of output in our tertiary institutions lie in the next four years. We are confident that you will bring your wealth of experience, adherence and respect for the rule of law and due process in the discharge of your responsibilities. “The major critical area of challenge is inadequate funding as well judicious use available resources. So, let me advise you to come up with new creative ways to improve funding in your institutions. “You will have to block the loopholes where the IGR slides away. I urge you to also comply and respect the rule of the Federal Character in the appointment of members of staff,” he said.