Liverpool are interested in signing Lille striker Victor Osimhen this summer but will have to battle with Napoli for the highly-rated youngster. A string of clubs have been linked with the 21-year-old in recent months, including Manchester United, Tottenham, Chelsea and Inter Milan thanks to an impressive breakthrough season in Ligue 1. The Nigeria international has scored 18 goals in all competitions this season, 13 of which have come in Ligue 1. Reports suggest that Napoli have already made a £70m bid for Osimhen, but Liverpool are ready to compete with them for his signature, and according to French publication L’Equipe, the asking price ‘shouldn’t be a problem.’ Meanwhile,  Osimhen’s representative has confirmed that the Lille forward is ‘very impressed’ by what Napoli have to offer. Osimhen has been in Naples since Tuesday, when he met coach Gennaro Gattuso at the club’s base in Castel Volturno, amidst talk of a 70m Euros deal being in the pipeline. Osita Okolo, who is also the Nigerian’s brother-in-law, admits the trip is going so well that they are meeting President Aurelio De Laurentiis today. “Yesterday, when he arrived in Naples, he headed straight to his first meeting with the club,” Okolo told Radio Punto Nuovo. “On the way, he watched people walking around the city streets and confessed to me that he was positively impressed. “Then he met the coach, Gattuso: they talked about the Napoli project and he was also very impressed on that occasion. “Today(Wednesday) he’ll meet the President, Aurelio De Laurentiis. He was impressed by Naples and its people, even though the tour around the city was short. “However, everything went in the right direction. Now, all we need to do is make a decision about the lad’s future. “I’m not sure what Napoli fans think of him, but I knew that everyone who crossed paths with him was very happy to see him in the city. I thought that was very nice of the Neapolitan people. I’m convinced the fans would also really like Victor’s style of play and that could impact positively on his final decision.”