AMCON management has hinted of plans to sell its over N5 trillion debt stock owed by a few Nigerians to the taxpayers, a development analysts find alarming. Do you share this sentiment? Well, one can understand the frustration faced by AMCON. Here you have got the enabling instrument to fast track the debt recovery operation, for which AMCON law was enacted. But it seems to be failing. AMCON faces a massive frustration. In the new thinking, perhaps, the management of AMCON is trying to come up with a suggestion that the N5 trillion a few Nigerians are indebted to through borrowing from banks covered by the AMCON’s operations should be recovered from all Nigerians. I strongly feel what the management of AMCON meant is that, in one way or the other, Nigerians generally will suffer for the sins that a few privileged people have committed – the sin of borrowing money from commercial banks under spurious circumstances and failing to pay back the money spells doom for the economy. Staggering as the amount is, it will definitely impact negatively on Nigerians. To that extent, the comment by the CEO of AMCON, in respect of which you are seeking my comment, the Institute of Credit Administration (ICA), believes that AMCON is legally able to recover the debts. If AMCON now say it is not able to collect the debts, then it shows that there are circumstances it cannot surmount within its operating environment in the country. We would like to suggest way out as an institute: First and foremost, ICA is positing that the powers that be, should back out of weakening the process of recovering the debts. AMCON should be left alone to do its job, for which the law has mandated it to do. Nobody should provide cover to those few corporate institutions and private individuals who borrowed money from the banks with or without intention to pay back those loan facilities. No economy works this way – how can we claim to be committed to building a strong economy that’s friendly to global investors, and from another direction we kill the same economy. The culture of corruption godfatherism should stop. Top level government officials should stop providing cover for those who have put the banking system in this mess. The judiciary should stop playing hide and seek game on this matter. They should stop entertaining the delay tactics of those debtors. The judicial system is not encouraging the growth and development of Nigeria’s economy. And it looks like the Judicial authority is behaving like it is not a part of government. Judicial authorities should also realise that their children and they themselves have limited time to live on earth. Therefore, they should do nothing to mess up the future generations of the country. How genuinely does it profit any person if he or she sacrifices national interest of our economy for personal gains? Criminal conducts and activities must be met with the full weight of the law. The judicial system should not create any avenue for people to escape or prolong the process to obtain justice. It is typical of debtors, whether individual or corporate debtors to find a way to frustrate the efforts of creditors to recover their money from them. We have seen a situation where rather than the debtor being chased by the creditor to recover the money; the debtor now begins to chase the creditor away from asking for his money. That is an aberration. No economy or system survives under that ridiculous situations. The judges, lawyers, should stop providing cover for high profile debtors. There shouldn’t be a hiding place for chronic debtors. How would you assess the role of the CBN in the debt recovery process thus far? The CBN is in a way culpable for not being able to institute a robust and transparent supervisions on the banks. Appropriate supervision instruments that deliver sanctions in cases of breach would have done the trick. Going to the origin of those debts, where was the CBN when banks were giving out loans under spurious circumstances? Was the CBN not supervising them at that time? These are the questions. As an Institute, we will maintain continued advocacy for good credit management practice in Nigeria. This is because if an organisation or institution grants credit to its customers or takes credit from its own suppliers of goods or services in the normal course of business for which payments are made later, the personnel of such organization or Institution ought to be, and should be members of this national body for credit management. Credit Management is a modern upper class profession for everyone, in that, credit economy affects everyone – be it financial credit, trade credit, consumer credit, political credit, or international sovereign credit, among others. Taking bank loan in the morning and failing to pay back in the evening is the quickest way to hurt the economy. As you are aware, the banks usually carry out due diligence checks before loans are issued. Do you think this protocol is being breached? Some of these high profile debtors, because they planned to take the money and never to repay, avoided submission of required documents at the initial stage of loan processing, to evidence commitment that would stand as proof of indebtedness.   In some cases, there were no proper disclosures. Just by mere political intervention, some of them got large chunks of loans from the banks. It is quite unfortunate that we are facing this kind of challenge today. In a credit based-economy, there are operating infrastructure or system that must be put in place to strengthen and protect credit market, leading to the formation of a national character that is based on integrity and trust. Commitment to obligation is always sacrosanct because if you fail to honour that obligation or keep to that commitment, you put your reputation and integrity at risk – they will go down. And so, the management in AMCON should make it possible for AMCON to collaborate with competence building institutions like the ICA, the judiciary, the legislature, etc., to deliver a seamless, healthy credit economy for this country. Without extending loan facilities, trade credit facilities, consumer credit facilities to the citizenry, the economy can never be any better.      