Like other initiatives put in place to keep the economy on an even keel in the midst of the ravaging COVID-19 pandemic, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)’s N50 billion special fund to revive the ailing textiles industry could not have come at a better time. Said to be a one-off intervention with maximum amount pegged at N2 billion for a single obligor for new facilities and N1 billion for refinancing with December 31, 2025 terminal date, the fund attracts a 4.5 per cent interest. It targets textile firms with existing facility in the books of the Bank of Industry (BoI) under the Cotton Textile and Garment (CTG) scheme, others with existing facilities in Deposit Money Banks/Non-Interest Financial Institutions (NIFIs), and textile firms not currently participating under the Small and Medium Enterprises/Restructuring/Refinancing Fund (RRF). Excluded are projects financed before the inception of the BoI CTG Loan in June 2009. Once again, we commend the CBN for the initiative. More than mere fiduciary duty, it is in one sense a measure of its recognition and acceptance of the weight of responsibility on its shoulders that it is availing a sector, regarded as one of the biggest employers of labour, such a hefty financial muscle at this difficult time. It is in another sense its recognition of how weak and endangered the sector has remained despite the billions of naira already sunk by way of past interventions to get it up and running. In this however, it bears stating that the CBN is merely following a familiar trajectory. Under President Olusegun Obasanjo, a N70 billion package was approved for the revitalisation of the sector, although, it was the Yar’Adua/Jonathan administration that finally gave the plan impetus. That initiative, also worked out by the CBN and the BoI, broadly covered lending, refinancing and restructuring of existing portfolios. Also, in 2016, the apex bank floated a N50bn intervention fund as working capital, debt takeover and long-term loan to the CTG value chain. The preceding bears highlighting, if only to put a lie to the myth that cash is all that the sector needs. Yes, it might well be that the advent of COVID-19 has presented the sector with some cash flow challenges. By and large, however, most of the challenges facing the sector not only precede the pandemic, they have lingered to the point of being intractable. From the epileptic power situation to the unreliable gas supply, both of which, combined, render the local product a non-starter in competitiveness; the influx of cheap smuggled textile products from Southeast Asian countries of India and China which leaves no room for the local industry to survive; and the lack of patronage for made-in-Nigeria textiles by schools, military and para-military as indeed other uniformed bodies which in the end can only translate into capacity underutilisation. All of these are problems that the perennial rounds of cash injections have not and won’t solve. Indeed, if there are any lessons from past interventions, it is that such interventions will not translate into any sudden improvements in the power situation any more than boosts in output will guarantee that the institutions would, in the end, take up the final output. The long and short of it is that the Federal Government needs to work harder to improve the general environment for doing business. In the meantime, it should make patronage of local textile firms by the military, the police, schools, the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and other uniformed bodies top priority. As for the borders, much as we appreciate that they cannot be closed forever, the government must find a lasting way to deal with the menace of smuggling. Without those measures, the targeted interventions will, in the end, come to naught.