The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of JAY & S OFF-SITE VENTURES, Judith Chinenye Edega better known as Jaysplash20 has bemoaned the deplorable state of Nigeria’s Economy and how it is affecting the entertainment industry. The Physical and Health education graduate however believes the digital space is taking over and turning things around for good. Hear her, “Well, I’ll say we all know the deplorable state of Nigeria’s economy. Besides the entertainment industry in Nigeria isn’t getting good support from the government, no rule of law to strengthen, support or uphold our value system but as God will have it the world has gone digital over the years so the proceeds from the digital space is really going a long way to keep us in business.” For the Enugu State born successful entrepreneur, there are certain hurdles she had to overcome to become a notable brand today. “The major challenge I faced starting up a highly competitive business like this was how to attract the right audience to my brand and converting them to undeterred Fans, strong believer, great supporters and followers. I was able to achieve success through confidence, competence and consistency. Those 3Cs really helped me in attaining this feat. I would always say that the major price I paid to become a reputable brand today is Huge Sacrifice; in terms of my time and resources. Then again Consistency. I was consistent and never gave up.” 28 year old Jaysplash20 also listed her mentors in the entertainment industry who are into the core business part of the industry. ” I have always looked forward to Ubi Franklin (MD/CEO Made Men Music and Management Limited), Mo Abudu (CEO EbonyLife), Audu Maikori (Founder- Chocolate City Group), to mention but a few. They motivate, inspire and keep me going with their respective success stories,” she noted. Advising other young folks who are aspiring to become successful brands tomorrow, Jaysplash20 noted that self-awareness comes before any other features. “Know yourself (self-awareness comes first before anything), competence (the more you know the more confident you’ll be as competence is the ability to apply your knowledge) and lastly consistency (be consistent, keep going no matter what, don’t give room for detractions, remain focused),” she squealed. 