Inspector General of Police (IGP) Mohammed Adamu on Monday said 41,863 officers and men of various ranks have been promoted since he assumed office in January 2019. Adamu, who spoke during the decoration of newly promoted senior police officer at the Force Headquarters in Abuja, said the promotions were guided by the principles of seniority and merit. The IGP said these reflected in their record of discipline and invaluable experience. Adamu noted that the capacity of the human assets of any organisation determines its capability, particularly at strategic management level, which is fundamental to the attainment of its goals and mandate. The IGP said no organisation can advance beyond the competence and dedication of its strategic leaders; neither can any organisational goals and plans be attained without a crop of highly committed personnel to drive the implementation process. He said this position is even more critical for a law enforcement agency that is strategic to internal security as the Nigeria Police Force. Adamu explained that this is because the rapidly changing dynamic of crime and the attendant increasing threat to security requires quality police managers that have the requisite professional knowledge, experience and competency to effectively provide leadership directed at managing such internal security realities. The IGP said the import of this is that any organisation that does not, or delays in recognising the potentials of its personnel and rewarding them by promoting those eligible at the appropriate time, risks retaining a crop of highly demotivated officers who would not be optimally dedicated to the standards and goals of the institution. “It is in cognisance of this that I have since my appointment as Inspector General of Police been collaborating effectively with the Police Service Commission (PSC) in ensuring that appropriate processes are placed to identify and promptly elevate deserving officers with unblemished service records for promotion,” he said. Adamu urged the promoted officers to support the Nigeria Police in attaining its mandate, remain civil to fellow citizens and be guided by the need to respect extant laws. Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, hailed the IGP for the innovative and revolutionary style he has introduced since his appointment.