A female staff of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) in Kaduna, Mrs. Yemi Awolola has been arrested for allegedly torturing and sexually abusing a 14-year-old girl she took into custody from IDP camp. Kaduna State Ministry of Human Services and Social Development which disclosed this on its Twitter handle said, Mrs. Awolola collected the victim from her parents at an Internally Displaced Persons’ (IDP) camp in Kajuru local government area of Kaduna 15 months ago. The Nation gathered that the girl was given to Mrs. Awolola on the agreement that she would be supported to go to school. The Ministry said Awolola and some of her family members had consistently abused, battered, made the girl to sleep in the toilet and often times forced her to drink pepper. The Tweet reads: “The Ministry is currently investigating a distressing news of child labour and physical violence by Mrs. Yemi Awolola a staff of NNPC group Kaduna on one 14-year old Princess Michael whom Mrs. Yemi keeps as a house help. “Princess was given to Mrs. Yemi by her parents, upon agreement that she will be supported to go to school. “For the 15 months of Princess’s stay with Mrs. Yemi, she has been consistently abused and battered. She is made to sleep in the rest room and often times is forced to drink pepper which Mrs. Yemi rubs on Princess’s body. “Recently the case was brought to light when Mrs.Yemi and her family members used a lighter to burn Princess’s private part and also inserted same device into her vagina which landed Princess in a hospital in Barnawa. “The Ministry does not condone cases of violence on anyone let alone on a child and will mete out sanctions on Mrs. Yemi and her family on three counts: a. Child labour. S.29 (1) of the CWPL states that no child should be subjected to forced or exploitative labour & anyone who contravenes any provision of (1) or (2) commits an offence & is liable on conviction to a fine of not less than N50,000 or imprisonment for a term of 5 years or both. b. Violence against children: Part IV, S.28 (1) of the CWPL states that no person shall subject a child to emotional & physical violence & anyone who contravenes this, commits an offence and is liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term of not less than Two (2) years or fine of not less than N100,000 or both. “Sexual violence: Mrs. Yemi recently used a device into Princess’s vagina and used flames to burn her around the walls of her vagina. S.32 (1) of the CWPL considers this an offence & S.33 (2) states that she is liable on conviction to a fine of not less than N100,000 or imprisonment to a term of not less than 5 years, or both. “Princess Michael will get justice for all Mrs. Yemi and her family have done to her. And every other would-be criminals like her who think they can abuse a child in Kaduna State and go free, should please try and see. No one hides for long,” the Ministry assured. 10/07/2020 – The Ministry is currently investigating a distressing news of child labour & physical violence by Mrs. Yemi Awolola a staff of @NNPCgroup Kaduna on one 14-year old Princess Michael whom Mrs.Yemi keeps as a house help.Princess was given to Mrs. Yemi by her parents… pic.twitter.com/FSmih8cG7G — Human Services & Social Development Kaduna (@KDHSSD) July 10, 2020 