 THE Governing Council of the University of Lagos (UNILAG) has advised the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) branch of the institution to stay within its limits as a trade union and act according to the laws of the land. The council stated this while reacting to ASUU’s threat that there might be violence, if the Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council, Dr. Wale Babalakin (SAN), visits the campus for a council meeting between Wednesday and Friday this week. In March, ASUU-UNILAG passed a vote of no confidence in Babalakin and declared him a persona non grata. The union blamed him for the postponement of the institution’s 51st convocation. On Saturday, the union issued a warning that Babalakin would not be welcomed on campus and planned an emergency congress for Wednesday, the start date of the council’s meeting. Faulting ASUU’s stance, the council noted in a statement by its Secretary and University Registrar, Oladejo Azeez, that the meeting was statutory and that any plan to disrupt it was against the law. The statement reads: “The attention of the Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council, Dr Bolanle Olawale Babalakin (SAN) has been drawn to the notice of Congress by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), University of Lagos branch, scheduled for Wednesday, July 15, 2020, at the Foyer of the Council Chambers. “I have the instruction of the Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council to inform members of the university community and the general public as follows: “1.          It is important to note that Council had earlier issued a notice for the council meeting commencing on the same July 15, 2020. “2.          This Council Meeting, apart from being statutory was also requisitioned by the Vice Chancellor of the University. “3.          The Vice Chancellor, Professor Oluwatoyin T. Ogundipe, recently requisitioned the meeting to the Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of the Governing Council, Dr Wale Babalakin, on May 11, 2020 and June 26, 2020. “4.          The time and topic by ASUU for their congress clearly indicate its plan to disrupt the council meeting, especially since it has issued several threats to prevent the Pro-Chancellor from coming to the university. “5.          This action is violently against the provision of Section 41, subsection 1 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) (Fourth Alteration), which guarantees freedom of movement of Nigerians within Nigeria. “6.          ASUU as a trade union under the laws of Nigeria is also expected to know that Section 4 of the Trade Union Act states that ‘No person shall subject any other person to any form of constraint or restriction in the course of persuasion.’ “7.          Obviously, ASUU, University of Lagos Chapter has shown clearly that it is a group that does not adhere to the Constitution of Nigeria or the Trade Union law, which it is a part of. “8.          As a responsible council, we will not engage ASUU, University of Lagos branch, on issues that are beyond its duties, powers and responsibilities under the laws of Nigeria. “9.          We, therefore, advise all law-abiding Nigerians to discountenance the action of the leadership of ASUU, University of Lagos branch, and go about their legitimate duties as they will be protected under the laws of the federation.” 