 A court in Lagos on Tuesday sentenced 37-year-old Emmanuel Idoko to 20 years imprisonment for sexually assaulting his 12-year-old daughter. A Sexual Offences and Domestic Violence Court, Ikeja, presided over by Justice Sybil Nwaka was told that Idoko penetrated his daughter’s private part with his finger, saying he wanted to test if she was a virgin or not. Later he said he would also test her with his manhood. Delivering judgment, Justice Nwaka said the prosecution provided enough evidence to prove its case. The judge said: “The defendant is found guilty of the charge of sexual assault by penetration contrary to Section 261 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State 2015. He is hereby sentenced to 20 years imprisonment.” Testifying for the prosecution on March 5, 2019, Dr Oyedeji Alagbe, a consultant with the Mirabel Centre (a sexual assault referral), said, “The victim’s ordeal started in 2016, a year before she was referred to the Mirabel Centre. The victim said her father came home saying he heard that she was no longer a virgin and needed to test her to see if it was true. “He forced her to undress and said he will use his finger to test her; the client was reluctant. He scolded her and eventually did it with his fingers. He also said that he would use his penis to examine her and she refused; he beat her and he subsequently started torturing her in the home because she kept turning down his requests.” In Ebonyi State, a 20-year-old victim of kidnap and torture narrated her ordeal in the hands of her abductors. She said she, her elder brother and another man were held hostage for five days by some community youths. During their captivity in the bush, five of their abductors took turns raping her, she said, adding that her attackers also inserted rods and sticks, among other things, into her private part. The 20-year-old was speaking to journalists after police freed them from their captors. Police spokeswoman, Loveth Odah confirmed the incident. Police in Ondo State yesterday arraigned one Haruna Mohammed, 24, for allegedly raping a 50-year old woman identified as Ibukun Akinlo. Haruna was arraigned at an Akure Magistrate Court. His plea was not taken, and Magistrate Rasheedat Yakubu remanded him pending legal advice. In Ogun three men were arrested for gang-raping a girl, after one of them lured her to an apartment in the Ogijo area of the state.