 ONE hundred and fourteen delegates of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) have pledged to vote for Mr. Eyitayo Jegede at the primary of the party tomorrow. The delegates are from Akure South Local Government. The endorsement coincided with a statement by another aspirant, Deputy Governor Agboola Ajayi, urging unity for the party to defeat the All Progressives Congress (APC). A former deputy governor of the state, Otunba Omolade Oluwateru, said Jegede paraded the best qualities and deserved to win the party’s primary. Oluwateru, a member of the PDP Board of Trustees and former Nigerian Ambassador to Uganda, said Jegede could be trusted, having sustained his loyalty to the PDP despite losing the governorship election in 2016. “This is a golden opportunity for you, to tell the entire people of Ondo State that Akure has an exceptional son who can fulfill the yearnings and aspirations of the masses of the state. “We have all been behind Jegede all this while because we can see ahead, that the people of the state stands to gain much in terms of employment generation, social infrastructure, agricultural revolution, solid health services, educational growth, among others,” he said. A member of the House of Representatives representing Akure South/North Constituency, Hon. Adedayo Omolafe, said Jegede was a leader who gives priority to the welfare of his followers. Another lawmaker representing Irele/Okitipupa federal Constituency, Hon. Ikengboju Gboluga, said he was a beneficiary of the generous disposition of Jegede. Jegede said Deputy Governor Agboola Ajayi was not a threat to his ambition. “In all my career, I have never been found wanting and I have overcome greed in any appearance. “If you cast your vote for me in this primary election, and if I eventually win the governorship race, nobody will be forgotten in terms of spreading the dividends of democracy.” In a statement by his campaign organisation, Agboola cautioned against disparaging comments against any of the aspirants of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). The statement was signed by the Director-General of the organisation, Dr Kola Ademujimi. He said the aim of the all PDP aspirants was to dislodge the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and not to fight one another. Ademujimi, in a statement titled “We cannot thank our teeming supporters and towering party enough”, said the comments about Ajayi being a new member of the PDP was not correct. He said he was a foundation member of the PDP. “From 1998 when he joined the PDP, till 2016 when political exigencies drove him out of the party, he has conducted himself as a bridge-builder and a conscious networker in and out the party and politics. “His humility, uncommon large-heartedness and generosity, palpable political dexterity and convincing demonstration of political sportsmanship have consummated his wide acceptance within a short period of his return to the party he helped uphold its umbrella for 18 years. “We are thankful for this uncommon show of love and trust, which we at the Alfred Agboola Ajayi Campaign Organisation (3ACO) have enjoyed across the 18 LGAs during our statewide tour and assure you that we will never take it for granted. “The ACO is proud of the untiring and creative strategies with which we presented our aspirant as a competent grassroots politician who rose through the ranks to serve in many executive positions at both the party and government levels. “His legislative experience as a former member of the House of Representative added to his widely accepted political resume of over three decades among our party members. “Our campaign issues were purely about positioning our party as a formidable, organised and victory-ready political platform for the sustainable development of party men and women as well as the non-partisan masses, technocrats and civil servants of the Sunshine State,” he said. Ademujimi urged members to pray and work together for “a rancour-free, truly democratic, very transparent, evidently fair and generally credible process”.