The Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi has given an update concerning his health status, saying that he was okay in isolation with no adverse effects or symptoms of the novel COVID-19. The governor had on Wednesday, announced on his verified Twitter handle, that his third results for COVID-19 tests had turned out positive and had gone into self-isolation. In a viral video circulated on Facebook, WhatsApp, Youtube and other social media platforms yesterday, Fayemi assured that he would soon resume duties. He said COVID-19 was not a hoax, urging the public to adhere to the established protocols, especially wearing of face masks, regular hand washing and social distancing, for protection and curbing the spread of the virus. He said: “It is important you wear your face masks, wash your hands regularly and maintain social distancing at every opportunity and keep to yourself, that is the least we could do.” Meanwhile, the government said it has arrested and prosecuted 150 persons for defying its directive on mandatory use of face masks. The Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice Olawale Fapounda, who disclosed this on Thursday, berated residents for flouting the directives despite the sensitisation, saying the enforcement which started on Monday would continue. The offenders, who were arrested in various parts of Ado Ekiti including Ajilosun, Ijigbo, Old Garage, Okesa, Fajuyi, Adebayo and Basiri, were taken to the special court sitting at the Fajuyi Pavillion where they were convicted for kicking against the Ekiti State Coronavirus Disease (Prevention of Infection) Regulations 2020. The Special Adviser to the Governor on Security, Brig. Gen. Ebenezer Ogundana (retd), disclosed that accredited security men and men of the Ekiti State Traffic Management Agency had been properly briefed to enforce the law as it related particularly to face mask use. Ogundana advised car owners on the use of the face mask, saying, “If you don’t have it, it constitutes an offence. You must have the face mask with you in your car”.