No fewer than 26,169 customers lodged complaints with the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) between January and April, this year, it was gathered on Wednesday. The complaints, it according to a report, had to do with Quality of Service (QoS) and Quality of Experience (QoE). The Commission, however, said complaints were managed to the satisfaction of the majority of telecom consumers, adding that of that number, 25,575, representing 98 per cent of the complaints, were resolved. The Executive Vice Chairman (EVC) of NCC, Prof, Umar Danbatta, however, expressed satisfaction that consumers are accessing the numerous complaint channels instituted by the Commission to resolve second level complaints brought to its attention. He said the NCC has emplaced the channels to enable consumers to escalate to the Commission complaints earlier reported to their service providers that may not have been addressed promptly and/or satisfactorily. “It is important to note that Commission’s actions in this regard is in congruence with NCC’s mandate to protect and defend the rights of the consumer, and to give concrete expression to its faith in the consumer as the lifeblood of the telecom sector, and therefore deserving of priority attention as enshrined in the Nigerian Communications Act (NCA) 2003,” Danbatta said. He restated the Commission’s commitment to taking steps, in collaboration with relevant stakeholders, to improve QoS for voice and data services. According to him, such responsibility has become more imperative, in view of the outbreak of COVID-19 and the attendant necessities for containing the contagion, giving that telecom consumers, in their majority, have come to rely more on telecom services in order to cope with the restrictions to physical movement and close contacts. NCC Director, Public Affairs, Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde, said many of the satisfied consumers reverted to either acknowledge the prompt resolution of their complaints or to thank the Commission for its intervention in service-related issues between them and their respective service providers.