Along-nursed dream came true for Prof. Adebola Kukoyi penultimate Saturday.  His former students at the University of Lagos (UNILAG) turned the sod to refurbish the institution’s cricket pitch, which would be renamed in his honour. Members of UNILAG Cricket alumni, who hold prominent positions in Cricket administration in Nigeria eulogised the Professor of Romantic and Comparative Literature for the discipline and principles he instilled in them while coaching the institution’s cricket team. In his remarks the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Toyin Ogundipe said the project was a product of his administration’s call to alumni and friends to partner with the institution to enhance its facilities. He praised Kukoyi, who clocked 80 July 5, for serving the university faithfully as the chairman of Sports Council in the 90s.  He prayed Kukoyi would be alive to see the completion of the project. “What you are seeing today is the actualization of the vision God gave us.  The celebrant of today, was the chairman of sports council in 1998.  I want to pray that every one of us that are part of the beginning will see the  completion,” he said. Speaking on the project, former President, Nigerian Cricket Association and former Chairman, African Cricket Association, Mr. Kwesi Sagoe, said former cricket players who passed through the university between 1998 and 2018 came together to honour Kukoyi and give back to the university. “It was just about seven weeks ago when we put heads together as a body of cricket alumni of the university.  We reached out all great Akokites who had played cricket at both NUGA and WAUG level between 1998 and 2018. As at toay, we have over 100 members.  We saw all members were happy we got together to celebrate Prof. Kukoyi.  Beyond the birthday, we felt we had to five back to cricket and ensure that at UNILAG, cricket is a sport of first choice,” he said. Vice President, Nigerian Cricket Federation and Chairman, Edo State Cricket Association, Mr. Uyi Akpata, praised Kukoyi for teaching them punctuality and other principles. “When Kukoyi tells you to be here by 10am, you be here.  things like that are some of the very important lifelong lessons that we and over 150 others that went through him learnt.  We should celebrate those we need to celebrate,” he said. On his part, Kukoyi thanked the university and his former students for the honour. “This is a very momentous time.  This idea is an idea whose time has come.  I feel very honoured; I am overwhelmed by this initiative.  We want to turn this place into a cricket mecca, where international cricketing will take place and also serve as an academy of sport,” he said.