 YES, we are borrowing from John Milton’s closet tragedy of Samson Agonistes in his 1671 epic titled Paradise Regain’d to depict the struggles currently being faced by suspended Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) Ibrahim Magu. These, perhaps, are his toughest times ever. Magu was taken into detention early last week after being commandeered in traffic to go face interrogation by an investigative panel raised by President Muhammadu Buhari over allegations of corruption, abuse of office and insubordination, among others, levelled against him. His main accuser is none other than supervising Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation Abubakar Malami. The investigative panel probing Magu is headed by retired Court of Appeal President and Chairman, Corruption and Financial Crime Cases Trial Monitoring Committee, Justice Ayo Salami. It has been an ironic reversal of fortunes for the suspended graft fighter regarding the hand he’s been dealt since his ordeal began last week. He was intercepted en route a scheduled appointment at the Force Headquarters in Abuja and corralled into honouring an invitation by the investigative panel sitting at the Banquet Hall wing of the Presidential Villa. Although the Department of State Security (DSS) and his own organisation, the EFFC, initially denied that he was arrested, nothing could have been any different if he was. Besides, the spin about the manner of his being reined in soon proved of no consequence as he was taken from that first panel appearance into detention. He had just launched a battle for bail as at the weekend. It was wholesale twist of fate for Magu, comparable to experiences of suspects over the years he held fort at EFCC. A worse turn is the media trial the anti-graft warrior has been subjected to. There’s been no end to claims of surreal amounts of money and other illicit assets purportedly traced to him. Some reports bordered on the farcical, like an alleged cash pile said to be found stashed away in Ikoyi cemetery! Apparently because the Salami panel is digging still and yet to make public statements, the allegations have festered into terrains of libel against other top functionaries. That was another ironic twist, comparable to experiences of Magu’s quarries. Things do not seem very auspicious presently for the embattled czar, with the President having placed him on suspension and the Police lately reported to have redeployed its men who worked with him at EFCC. Truth, however, is: Magu remains innocent until proven guilty and deserves all benefits of the doubt. His reversal of fortunes should serve as advisory to law enforcers that ostentatious rough-handling and media trial of suspects before they get justice is itself pre-emptive and vile injustice.  