 WOMEN in the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ondo State on Tuesday urged Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu to pick a female running mate. The women, who are members of the Aketi Women, spoke in Akure at a solidarity rally. They said women have played roles in socio-political struggles without recognition. Members of Aketi Women said women in the North were more relevant and valued in politics than women in the Southwest. Speaking to reporters, the Coordinator of the Aketi Women, Princess Adebunmi Osadahun, said many credible women had served the state and it was time the state ploughed back to them. She said Ondo was the only state in the Southwest that treated women as irrelevant. Osadahun said: “Ondo State has never had a female senator since 1976. We have had just one woman in the House of Representatives, courtesy of Pa Adefarati. The position of Secretary to the State Government is a no-go area for Ondo State women. “Women are more prudent, loyal, more hardworking and better managers of men and resources. Ondo State women must not become a laughing stock. We are becoming more sensitive to our situation of relegation. “We have come together to say we want a woman as the deputy governor. Since 1976 when the state was created, no woman has been given a chance to rise politically. This is not the scenario in the whole of Southwest. We are making this demand before we become the laughing stock. In politics, women are the majority of voters. We are the singers, we are the dancers.” APC has said it is not aware that Governor Akeredolu has picked a running mate. Sections of the social media have been awash with reports that Akeredolu has picked Lucky Ayediatiwa as his running mate. But spokesman for the party, Alex Kalejaiye, said the party was still looking for a suitable running mate for the October 10 governorship election. He said the person being sought for must be a loyal party man that would not betray the party in future. Information and Orientation Commissioner Donald Ojogo said he was not aware that any running mate had been picked.