 Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr is reportedly not losing sleep over England interest in Arsenal winger and British-Nigerian Bukayo Saka. The 18-year-old Saka who recently penned a new deal with the Gunners, has been in rich vein of form since the restart of the English Premier League after the COVID-19 enforced lockdown to elicit huge interest from far and wide. England manager Gareth Southgate is expected to assess Saka as well as Manchester United’s Mason Greenwood and Manchester City’s Phil Foden in the weekend’s FA Cup semi-finals when he attends his first matches since the lockdown began in March. But sources close to Rohr said the German is adopting a wait-and-see attitude despite the fact that he acknowledged the added value Saka could bring to the Super Eagles. ” As you know, it’s not in the habit of coach Gernot Rohr to  speak about players who have the prospect of playing for two countries as far as Saka is concerned,” a close confidant of the German told NationSport.  “Of course, Rohr knows that Saka is a very good player but it’s not in his habit to speak publicly about players who have not committed their future to Nigeria.” Born in England, Saka is of Nigerian descent and has represented England as youth international at the U-16, U-17 and U-19 where he scored on his debut at that age level in a qualifier against Moldova in 2018. He recently scored his first EPL goal for the Gunners and words are rife that the England manager Southgate might hand him a call up ahead of the forthcoming Nations League games in September against Iceland and Denmark. Yet Rohr for the umpteenth time said recently that Nigeria would not be begging any player to star for the Super Eagles under his watch. “We don’t beg any player; if they want to play they should call me to indicate their interest like Alex Iwobi, Ola Aina and Joe Aribo. “It’s not the wise thing to beg them to play for Nigeria, we want players who are committed to making Nigerians happy,” noted the 67-year-old experienced coach. 