 July 6 is about the most important day to them. That was the date they were born. They have impacted lives and their followers have been wishing them a happy birthday. Richard Eyimofe Evans Mofe-Damijo popularly known as RMD, was born on July 6, 1961. He is a actor and former Commissioner for Culture and Tourism in Delta State. In 2005, he won the Africa Movie Academy Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role.[1][2] He received a Lifetime Achievement Award at the 12th Africa Movie Academy Awards in 2016. Mofe-Damijo was born in Aladja community of Udu Kingdom, near Warri, Delta State. He attended Midwest College, Warri and Anglican Grammar School and was a member of the Drama Club. He enrolled into the University of Benin to continue his education and studied Theatre Arts. In 1997 Mofe-Damijo returned to the university to study law at the University of Lagos and graduated in 2004. Tolu Oniru, popularly known as Toolz, is a radio personality, talk show host, and presenter. She is best known for hosting The Midday Show on The Beat 99.9 FM. Toolz was born in London on July 6, 1982. She had her primary education at Talbot House preparatory school in Bournemouth, UK, and secondary education in Nigeria before relocating to study at City of Westminster College.She also has a degree in Business and Mass communication from London Metropolitan University. Her parents are the famous Oniru Royal family of Lagos State. Adeola Eunice Oladele Fayehun was born on July 6, 1984. She is a Nigerian journalist who specializes in discussing current geopolitical, social and economic issues that affect the daily lives of Africans living on the continent. She is well known for a controversial 2015 on-street interview where she and fellow Sahara TV journalist Omoyele Sowore asked Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe about when he would be stepping down from office. In 2013, she interviewed former Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan on the streets of New York, asking him what he was doing about the then on-going Boko Haram insurgency. In 2009, after graduate school, Fayehun worked at CUNY TV as a TV news producer. During this time she wrote and produced a feature on Sahara Reporters’s Omoyele Sowore, who she later went on to work with in a behind-the-scenes capacity at Sahara Reporters. Alon Abisola Arisicate Ajoke Olajuwon, better known as Abi Olajuwon was born on July 6, 1988. She is an American basketball coach and former player. Olajuwon is the daughter of former NBA center Hakeem Olajuwon. Her name, Abisola Olajuwon, means “born into wealth and the wealth is greater than them”. Nnamdi Asomugha was born on July 6, 1981. He is a Nigerian-American actor, producer and former American football cornerback. He played college football for the University of California, Berkeley, and was drafted in the first round of the 2003 NFL Draft by the Oakland Raiders. He also played for the Philadelphia Eagles and San Francisco 49ers. For many years he was considered one of the best shutdown corners in the NFL. In his 11-year career, he was voted All-Pro four times, including two times to the first team. Asomugha was selected as a member of Fox Sports’s NFL All-Decade Team 2000-2009 and USA Today’s NFL All-Decade Team 2000s, and is considered one of the greatest Oakland Raiders of all time.