The Pitcher Awards, recognised as the new benchmark for creative excellence in marketing communications across Africa, has announced winners for 2020. The winners were announced at the 2020 Pitcher Awards show organised by CHINI Africa, the official festival representative of Cannes Lions in Nigeria. Speaking at the awards show, Nnamdi Ndu, CEO of CHINI Africa, said: “With the COVID-19 crisis, we were faced with 2 choices: to cancel the 2020 festival, or to migrate online. As a company that champions creativity, it wasn’t difficult at all for us to make a choice. ”At no time in recent history has creativity been more important. We need creativity to restore hope, livelihoods, businesses and economies. So, this is not the time for us to step back in our role of honouring creativity. We must encourage those that are doing well to do better for the sake of all of us.” He also thanked the Advertising Practitioners Council for their support on the programme especially with the Future Creative Leaders Academy. The Pitcher Awards’ 4 main categories were determined by 3 juries: Heritage, Channel and Innovation. The Heritage category judged entries in Film, Audio, Print, Design, Branded Content and Outdoor, including Installations and Activations. The Channel category judged entries in use of media, use of data, use of insights and strategy, PR and reputation management and integrated campaigns while the Innovation category looked at works in social media, messaging, devices and novel ideas in addition to the Pitcher for Good category. Special awards include Advertising agency of the year; media agency of the year, digital agency of the year and Advertiser of the year. Apart from the advertiser of the year, the other special awards were based on cumulative points garnered by the agency. The agency of the year is the agency with the highest cumulative points across the entire awards category. The Media agency of the year is the agency with the most points in the Channel category and the digital agency of the year is the agency that scores the highest in the Innovation category.