 THE Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria (MWUN) has warned against retrenchment and pay cut in the salaries of workers by employers who plan to use the economic impact of coronavirus pandemic as an excuse. The maritime union noted that such moves, which will not be tolerated by the union, would be met with stiff resistance. President-General of MWUN, Prince Adewale Adeyanju, said no reasonable employer would contemplate any retrenchment or salary slash during this difficult period of Covid-19. He said: “This is the time for employers to not only retain jobs, but increase salaries and allowances of workers to cope with the consequences of Covid-19. In fact, the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has given us directive of what to do if any employer retrenches or reduces the salary of workers because of Covid-19. “We are fully ready for any employer that will try such. The welfare of our members is paramount in this critical period and we will not tolerate any action to undermine the welfare, security and health of our members.” Also, the MWUN, in collaboration with the International Transport Federation, ITF, presented Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)  to seafarers across the nation’s seaports as Nigeria today joins the rest of the world to mark the world Seafarers, Day. On the PPE, he said: “This is the second phase of our programme of distributing safety and protective wears to seafarers such as hand sanitisers, hand gloves, face masks, infrared thermometers among others in all ports, starting from Lagos. By next week, we will move to other ports such as Calabar, Warri, Onne, Bonny and Port Harcourt. “This programme was made possible through the collaboration with the ITF that graciously provided counterpart grant, a world confederation of transport unions with affiliates from 157 countries, and to which our union is equally affiliated.” He commended the ITF for the gesture and for providing support to the union in “this trying time.” He added: “We thank ITF General Secretary, Steve Cotton and his team for this awesome support tom our teaming seafarers.”