All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader Asiwaju Bola Tinubu on Wednesday described the death of foremost philanthropist and entrepreneur Chief Bode Akindele as an irredeemable loss to the country. In his tribute, the former Lagos governor described the deceased as a self-made man who wielded influence in many sectors of the economy. He said the exit of the Ibadan high chief will be felt by many. The tribute reads: “His loss is, indeed, a great and irredeemable loss for our people. Chief Akindele lived a long and fulfilled life marked by a multitude of impressive achievements. “He was a self-made man who single-handedly built a large and successful business empire with interests spanning from maritime to properties, manufacturing, real estate, finance and flour milling. Chief Akindele was an astute and driven businessman and the breadth and variety of his interests stand as a monument to his uncanny ability to achieve success no matter the nature of the endeavour upon which he decided to embark. Chief Akindele’s success was not limited to Nigeria or, indeed, Africa. “Through his perseverance, determination and consistency of effort and character, Chief Akindele was able to achieve greatness on a global scale. His accomplishments in life stand testament to all that can be achieved by tenacious and astute African businessmen such as himself and his reputation as a leading industrialist and business tycoon will doubtless live on in the memory of his followers and fellow Nigerians. “What separates Chief Akindele from other men of means is his large-heartedness, the extraordinary enthusiasm with which he gave of his time and of himself. Chief Akindele was a renowned philanthropist whose foundation employed and empowered many people. His passing will be keenly felt by the multitude of young Nigerians touched by his generosity. “Throughout the span of his life, Chief Akindele lived charitably. He was regarded by everybody that knew him as a cheerful giver. His beneficence towards his fellow man, particularly the people of Ibadan, was legendary. He shall be sorely missed by the needy and oppressed Nigerians whom he so loved and cared for. “While his passing is a great loss to the Nigerian people, we thank God that he was able to live a long and fulfilled life to the age of 88.  We are grateful to Almighty God for the time that we spent with Chief Akindele here on earth and for the way he was able to touch the lives of so many with his philanthropy. “He left his footprint in the sands of time and his memory will live long in the hearts and minds of all of us who were blessed to have known him personally and a multitude of those who did not. “I pray solace to Bolaji, his son, and all other members of his family. My condolences also to the Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji, Aje Ogunguniso I. May Almighty God grant them all the resolve to bear this loss and the fortitude to carry on in honour of his legacy.”