Delta State Governor, Dr Ifeanyi Okowa, has described as ridiculous the idea that his family was paid to declare they tested positive for Covid-19. While recounting his experience with Covid-19 yesterday, Okowa said more than three members of his family contracted the virus. Dr Okowa, at a family thanksgiving at the Government House Chapel, Asaba, said God’s mercy saw the first family through the challenge. He reiterated that Covid-19 was real, adding that it was “ridiculous and unimaginable” for anyone to think that his family was given money to declare that they tested positive for the virus. According to him, the best way to avoid the devastating disease was for everybody to accept its reality and abide by the prescribed protocols to keep it at bay. The governor, who was with his wife Edith and children, said they had planned for a family thanksgiving to show gratitude to God for His goodness. According to him, “we planned to appreciate God for the electoral victory in 2015, five eventful years as governor, divine mercy when a heavy object fell on my head while in the office, escaping from a fire incident that engulfed our household some time ago. “As a family, we want today to thank God for His faithfulness unto us, for the peace that we enjoy, for the unity in our home and for His love in our lives. “God has done so much for us and we will continue to thank Him every day of our lives. “Sometimes, I wonder how and why we deserve His mercy. It is for His grace, not because we are so righteous. God has continued to be there for me and my family, and I will continue to thank Him. “In my approach to the 2015 election, not many people gave me a chance but God perfected His will.” He thanked Deltans and Nigerians for their prayers while the travails lasted and pledged to redouble his service to God and in governing Delta. He disclosed that a lot had been achieved by his administration, adding however that much still needed to be done and sued for the support of all in building a Stronger Delta. To those who are in the habit of criticising his policies and programmes, the governor urged them to base their criticisms on facts rather than fiction.