An ally of Governor Godwin Obaseki, Dr. Don-Pedro and the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, have disagreed over the campaign manifesto tagged “SIMPLE Agenda.” Don-Pedro, the convener, Midwest Movement, claimed that Ize-Iyamu stole the agenda. He vowed to retrieve his intellectual property. Obaseki’s ally claimed that he first publicly unveiled the agenda in August 2015 during a live programme on BENTV, United Kingdom, where he presented his six-pronged campaign manifesto as an aspirant for the 2016 governorship election in Edo State. Don-Pedro said: “It has come to my attention that people have been advertising their campaign manifesto to be the SIMPLE Agenda, which is a lifting of my ideas that I shared publicly in 2015. “My SIMPLE idea is an acronym for Security and Social Welfare, Infrastructure Development and Urban Renewal, Manpower Development and Training, Public-Private Partnership, Leadership by Example and Employment for Edo Youths. This is the same as what Pastor Ize-Iyamu and his followers are parading online today. “So, I state categorically that I will be beginning processes for retrieving my intellectual property, as it is obvious that the idea did not originate from those who are pushing on with it today.” Ize-Iyamu, through the Chairman, Edo State APC Media Campaign Council, Prince John Mayaki, described as frivolous, the claims of Don-Pedro, which he declared could put him in trouble with the law. Mayaki said: “His (Don-Pedro’s) first attempt to claim ownership of the SIMPLE Agenda, an acronym and manifesto conceived and developed by Pastor Ize-Iyamu, was during an interview on Ben TV, believing that he could use the mental strength of another to make himself look good, without his knowledge or notice. “Pastor Ize-Iyamu had invited Don-Pedro and a few other persons to a meeting in 2013, in the home of Mr. Osaretin Edosomwan, where he shared the SIMPLE Agenda idea, a culmination of his thoughts on how to move Edo State forward, and made clear his intention to run for the governor on the manifesto. “The acronym and the driving idea perhaps left a lasting impression on Don-Pedro, who would then go on TV to claim it. But when this was brought to the attention of Pastor Ize-Iyamu, Don-Pedro showed remorse, apologised and the large-hearted Pastor Ize-Iyamu forgave him for the grievous offence. “As a matter of fact, Don-Pedro held another interview and several others after that where he clarified that the idea of the SIMPLE Agenda originated from Pastor Ize-Iyamu. “Don-Pedro supported Pastor Ize-Iyamu’s governorship bid in 2016, when he ran with the same manifesto and acronym, without a word or contention. His turnaround is without doubt political and a shameful advertisement of his lack of scruples. “Don-Pedro has not only reduced himself to backing a candidate he vehemently opposed in 2016 (Godwin Obaseki), but he is also now offering himself as a tool for hatchet jobs and baseless propaganda, without minding what it will do to his name and what is left of his integrity. “Could it be because of the appointment Governor Obaseki gave Don-Pedro at the Edo Broadcasting Service (EBS), Benin, where he does not resume or contribute anything, but draws monthly salaries and allowances from the purse of Edo State? “PDP and Obaseki have no manifesto of their own to run with or sell. They are evidently intimidated by the wide acceptance and commendation of Pastor Ize-Iyamu’s SIMPLE Agenda, hence the weak attempt to bring it into disrepute. We are not surprised at this because it is a familiar tactic of failures.” Ize-Iyamu said he expected Don-Pedro, “a self-acclaimed professor,” to know better, especially in the areas of intellectual property and moral integrity, adding that money could indeed corrupt all things.