 THERE is not a stir, not even a faint rustle in the confines of the grave shrouding Angela Daniel. The surroundings of the tomb blanketing the three-year-old, and the mangled corpses of eight others, including a pregnant woman, remain eerily quiet as wild weeds overrun its markers. Angela, three; Aba Ibrahim, six; Luka Magwa, five; Ishaya Yakubu, seven; Stephen Ngwe, seven; David Yakubu, 15; pregnant Talatu Daniel, 32, and her unborn child; Sunday Biri, 45; and Izhe Nkama, 43, lay quiet in a mass grave after being hacked to death by suspected herders. On the night of Tuesday, April 14, “about a dozen herdsmen” armed with rifles and machetes raided their homes in Hura-Maiyanga village, in the Miango area of Kwall District in Plateau State’s Bassa County, a region known for its copious agricultural endowments and production of Irish potatoes, a food staple enjoyed by several families in the north-central and southern parts of Nigeria. “On the night of the attack,” said, David Dontang, a farmer and resident of the area, “the herdsmen surrounded Hura hamlet, speaking Fulfulde, and they unleashed mayhem on the village as we retired to bed.” Dontang relocated from the area immediately after the attack. “I do not wish to die before my time. I cannot let them murder my wife and children because of land,” said the 36-year-old. Nine persons were killed, and two injured, while 22 houses and yam barns were burnt by the herders, who struck as the agrarian community grappled with challenges imposed by the lockdown. The victims, children inclusive, were buried in a mass grave. The Plateau State Police Command, through the Police Public Relations Officer, Gabriel Uba, confirmed the incident stating that “Unknown gunmen attacked Hura village in Kwall district. As a result, nine persons were killed and 22 houses, two motorcycle, and two generators were burnt. The Commissioner of Police immediately visited the Community along with some very senior officers of the Command. More men have been deployed to the area to ensure that the community is peaceful and calm.” But while Hura-Maiyanga village lamented its defencelessness, 12-year-old Filibus Magaji, confronted the invaders from a position of strength. Filibus courageously fought off machete-wielding herdsmen while they attempted to kill his father, even when his older brothers had run for their dear lives. His village, Gonan Rogo, in Kajuru LGA of Kaduna State was attacked on Tuesday, May 12, and 17 people were killed. The 12-year-old was hailed as a hero after he fought off the attackers as they hacked at his father with dangerous weapons. Even though they were critically wounded, Filibus and his father survived the attack alongside his sister, Helen, who had to undergo cranial surgery. Sadly, the attackers killed his mother, according to the Resilient Aid and Dialogue Initiative (RADI), a local non-governmental organisation (NGO) that launched a crowd-funding initiative to deflect the Magajis’ medical bills at the St. Gerard’s Hospital, Kakuri, Kaduna State. On January 26, 2020, barely two weeks after suspected herdsmen killed 12 people in the Mangu Local Government Area of Plateau State, no fewer than 13 persons were killed in a fresh attack by gunmen in Bokkos Local Government Area of the state. The attack which took place in the Kwatas community on a Sunday night also left five others critically injured and receiving treatment at the General Hospital. “Bokkos used to be the hub of agriculture in Plateau until its inaccessible roads and persistent herdsmen attacks made it insecure. Our people are scared to visit their farms. Many fear being hacked to death by herdsmen while working on their farms. This has affected livelihoods and reduced crop yield in the region,” said Rufus Bitus, a potato and vegetable farmer. Bokkos, argued Bitus, was notable for its large production of Irish Potato which is produced in commercial quantity there. He urged the government to intervene immediately to secure lives and property and the agricultural economy of the area. The United Nation (UN)’s Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), estimates that Nigeria uses only half of its 71 million hectares of available farmland, which represents about a third of Nigeria’s landmass. Ferocious contests between herders and farmers over fertile parts of the landmass has exacted a heavy humanitarian toll with about 8,000 people killed, according to the International Crisis Group (ICG) in its 2020 report. Some estimates suggest that about 2,500 were killed countrywide in 2016 alone – a toll higher than that caused by the Boko Haram insurgency over the same period. In Benue, one of the hardest-hit states, more than 1,878 people were killed between 2014 and 2016, according to the state governor, Samuel Ortom. And from January 2015 to February 2017, at least 62,000 people were displaced in Kaduna, Benue and Plateau states; in the absence of Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) camps, most seek shelter in other poor, rural communities, straining their already scarce resources. The fear of conflict alone has driven residents like Mary Emmanuel, a 56-year-old widow and mother of four to relatively more secure urban and semi-urban areas, where they are often forced to live as destitutes. “Life is harder in the city but it is safer here. I don’t have to live in fear of being killed on my farm or in my sleep…The herdsmen killed my husband, sister, and father-in-law in Zilian (Kaduna) on February 20, 2017. I can’t live in that place anymore. Too many bad memories,” she said. For children and women, the impact is frequently magnified. The relatives of men killed in the violence often evict widows from their farmland. Moreover, post-conflict economic and social disenfranchisement renders women and girls even more vulnerable to sexual and economic predation. For instance, Rebecca Joshua-Dalyop, 21, revealed that she started exchanging sex with husbands of her late mother’s friends soon after her parents and eldest brother were hacked to death when herdsmen launched a midnight attack on her neighbourhood in 2018. “I needed money to feed and buy sanitary towels, and my maternal aunt I stayed with could hardly get by on her own, let alone provide for me. I fed her and her four children from the little I made hustling,” she said. The economic toll has also been huge. According to a 2015 study, the federal government was losing $13.7 billion in revenue annually because of herder-farmer conflicts in Benue, Kaduna, Nasarawa and Plateau states. The study found that on average these four states lost 47 per cent of their internally-generated revenues. In March 2017, Benue State governor, Samuel Ortom, asserted that attacks by herders coming from northern states, and possibly also from Cameroon and Niger, had cost his state N95 billion between 2012 and 2014. Communities and households also pay a heavy price. The ethnic Nzor-Tiv Global Association estimated its Agatu communities in Benue state lost N65 billion in property during the early 2016 herder attacks. The loss of large cattle herds and crops due to population displacements and damage to irrigation facilities, as well as increases in transport and labour costs in post-conflict environments all increase poverty and food insecurity in affected communities – and beyond. The conflicts have spawned dangerous political and religious conspiracy theories. One is that the attacks are part of a longer-term plot to displace indigenous populations and seize their lands. Among Christian communities, herder attacks are widely seen as a subtle form of jihad. In March 2016, the prelate of the Methodist Church of Nigeria, Dr. Samuel Uche, said: “We are aware there is a game plan to Islamize Nigeria, and they are using the Fulani herdsmen to initiate it.” These charges are not supported by any solid evidence, but they are aggravating inter-faith distrust and undermining the country’s fragile unity. The Sultan of Sokoto and Muslim leader, Mohammed Sa’ad Abubakar III, has repeatedly stressed that herders who kill should be prosecuted as criminals and even terrorists. The Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) recently condemned the Plateau police command for linking suspected herdsmen to the Sunday, January 26, attack in the state that resulted in 13 deaths. The group accused the police of coming up with a hasty conclusion in the case by saying the attack on a bar in Kwatas village in Bokkos local government area, was caused by herdsmen. Isa Bappa, who heads MACBAN in Plateau, urged the security agencies to go after the perpetrators of the crime just as he condemned the reprisal by angry youths who reportedly set ablaze 23 houses and a mosque. It is equally regrettable for some youth in Kwatas to launch attacks on Fulani communities as a reprisal. Both incidents are barbaric and condemnable,” he said. Few people would forget in a hurry, the controversy that trailed the killing of 66 Fulani herders in eight settlements in Kajuru Local Government of Kaduna State in 2019. Kaduna State governor, Nasir El-Rufai, first announced the killings after meeting with officials of the International Republican Institute of the United States (US) who visited him in Kaduna. El-Rufai said, during a press briefing at Sir Kashim Ibrahim House, that, “I got a report of the killing of about 66 Fulani at Maro in Kajuru Local Government. I think this is deliberately designed to cause a reprisal and destabilize the local government during elections.” The settlements affected included Ruga Bahago, Ruga Daku, Ruga Ori, Ruga Haruna, Ruga Yukka Abubakar, Ruga Duni Kadiri, Ruga Shewuka, and Ruga Shuaibu Yau. Among the victims were 22 children and 12 women while four wounded persons were rescued by the security agencies. But while the military authorities confirmed the narrative, the Adara community, in a statement, described the government’s claim as deliberate falsehood. Earlier, between June 17 and June 20, 2017, several communities in the backwoods of the Mambilla Plateau in the Sardauna local government area (LGA) of Taraba State were reportedly attacked by armed men suspected to be from the Mambilla tribe. About 141 people were allegedly killed and many more went missing. Nigeria’s far north is arid and semi-arid, with a long dry season from October to May and low rainfall (600 to 900 mm) from June to September. In 2008, the National Meteorological Agency (NMA) reported that over the preceding 30 years the annual rainy season dropped from an average of 150 to 120 days. In the last six decades, over 350,000 sq km of the already arid region turned to desert or desert-like conditions, a phenomenon progressing southward at the rate of 0.6km per year. In Bauchi, Borno, Gombe, Jigawa, Kano, Katsina, Kebbi, Sokoto, Yobe, and Zamfara states, estimates suggest that 50 to 75 per cent of the land area is becoming desert. These environmental changes have wrecked agriculture and human livelihoods, forcing many cattle herders to migrate south, in search of productive land. Changing practices among farmers and herders have also strained relations. Over the last three decades, some cattle herders have gradually adopted sedentary lifestyles, leaving cattle herding increasingly to young men or boys, aged nine to 25 years, who often lack the civility and maturity to resolve disputes amicably. Lagos based cow seller and native of Adamawa, Adamu Musa, 76, lamented that “Many boy-herders are impatient and they go about with a sense of entitlement. They do not have the tact and wisdom of the elderly herders. That is why they are quick to violence when in conflict with farmers whose farmlands they’ve destroyed with their herds.” In earlier decades, herders and community chiefs agreed on stock routes, burti or butali, sometimes under local government auspices. Disputes over wandering stock or damaged crops typically were resolved by village chiefs and herders’ leaders, Ardos. Those that defied the decisions of these community-level mediators were referred to local authorities. This system started crumbling in the 1970s, undermined by the involvement of the police and courts. Pastoralists hated these new institutions: corrupt police at times extracted fines and bribes while alien and protracted court processes immobilised their herds. Furthermore, local political leaders have tended to favour sedentary farmers, whose votes they crave, over itinerant herders, who may not be around at election time. Consequently, herders feel increasingly marginalised and are largely distrustful of local political leaders as conflict mediators. Over time, both herders and farmers have lost confidence in the ability of authorities to mediate and conciliate. Aggrieved parties have turned to violence to seek redress or revenge. The growing scarcity of resources is further compounded by the increase in Nigeria’s population – 198 million people in 2018 and about 200 million in 2020 – desertification and influx of people from areas affected by the conflict with Boko Haram, mainly Borno, Adamawa, and Yobe states. In this changing environment, relations become more competitive and confrontational, especially in the absence of negotiations between farmers and herders to ensure access to grazing grounds and livestock routes. The situation has also led to herder forays into the southwest region, where persistent herdsmen attacks have triggered apprehension and a palpable state of insecurity in parts of the southwest. The herders’ violent incursions into the region were one of the reasons advanced by governors of the southwest states for launching the Amotekun security initiative. The establishment of the regional vigilance group has, however, failed to reduce the spate of herdsman attacks. A few months ago, herders wreaked havoc at Oja Odan and 28 other communities in Yewa North Local Government Area of Ogun State, where they recently killed a 70-year-old farmer and chopped off his son’s hand, The Nation reported in February 2020. The victims, Sola Ilo and his son, Abidemi were attacked on January 10, on their farm at Oke Asa by six menacing herdsmen, who appeared from the bush behind the farm and hacked the elderly Ilo to death, while Abidemi’s wrist was chopped off. The incident occurred at Agbon village, about 15 kilometres from Oja Odan town in Yewa North Local Government Area of Ogun State. Several devastating herdsmen attacks have followed presidential promises to find and jail perpetrators, the violence has continued seemingly unabated. To defuse the tense atmosphere created by the herder-farmer conflict, the federal government must intensify efforts to mitigate climate change and restore the environment and expedite the implementation of its National Livestock Transformation Plan (NLTP), which was approved in Abuja in January 2019. The Plan lays out strategies for transforming the livestock sector by establishing ranches within public grazing reserves and securing water resources, boosting pasture and fodder production, and encouraging investment in associated activities. Abiodun Koleoso, a private security expert, also suggested that the federal government need to foster dialogue and disarmament efforts among herders and farming communities. On January 23, 2020, the Zamfara State House of Assembly resolved that the state government should set up a disaster and relief committee that would liaise with the federal government and donor agencies to mobilise resources and develop programs for victims of violence across the state. One way the federal government can help would be to release the N10 billion that it appropriated for humanitarian response and livelihood recovery support in the 2019 federal budget. But that is in the long-run, in the short-run, displaced and bereaved families, affected by the crisis need President Muhammadu Buhari to intervene more decisively in the interest of peace and their slain relatives. There have been talks of compensation for the bereaved but there is hardly consensus on what form it would take. How do you compensate the bereaved families of the 66 slain herders of Kajuru? How do you compensate the herder, who watched helplessly, in hiding, as his pregnant wife was butchered and his unborn child was hacked from her belly in Zilian? How do you compensate the family of four killed by invading herders on their farmland in Antsa, Keana LGA in Nasarawa? How do you compensate the Plateau-9 for their untimely death? This minute, Angela Daniel, three; Luka Magwa, five; Aba Ibrahim, six; Ishaya Yakubu, seven; Stephen Ngwe, seven; David Yakubu, 15; pregnant Talatu Daniel, 32, and her unborn child; Sunday Biri, 45; and Izhe Nkama, 43, lay rotting in a mass grave, after being hacked to death by suspected herdsmen, during their bedtime in Bassa. Like decomposing tenants of the earth, they lay quiet and unseen, beneath gnarly weeds and scorched dirt. There are no bold inscriptions to mark their gravestone. There is nothing to show their names, months, and birth years. But memories of their death year howl, like ripped moans from plucked souls in Plateau’s killing fields.