Southwest All Progressives Congress (APC) Publicity Secretary Chief Karounwi Oladapo has predicted a bleak future for the Ekiti State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He said the Caretaker Committees appointed to manage the crisis-ridden chapter for the next three months will certainly spend more than the period. Oladapo said in a statement in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital, that the PDP national leadership has handed over the management of the chapter to chieftains from Oyo and Osun states because the Caretaker Chairman is from Oyo State while the Secretary is from Osun State. He said the PDP national leadership could not find any trusted and capable PDP stalwart in Ekiti to manage the chapter in the interim. Oladapo said: “This is very demeaning and not eddyfing. Anyway, this is the worth of Ekiti PDP before the PDP national hierarchy. The APC chieftain noted that the recently inaugurated PDP wards executives in multiple factions are before the Federal High Court for ctisis resolution, adding that, until the court decides, one way or another, the legitimate wards executives that are supposed to constitute the Local Government congress for the elections of PDP leaders at the Local Government level will tarry, except the Party decides to be contemptuous of Court process. He said the same would apply to the State Congress. Oladapo asked: “The matter that hasn’t taken off at the Federal high Court, and that is bound to get to the Supreme Court, can the resolution be achieved and congresses concluded within three months, even if the lockdown is lifted today?” To the former deputy speaker of House of Assembly, “the Caretaker Committees and the subjugation of Ekiti PDP under the rulership of Oyo and Osun will remain beyond  three months, except miracle happens and the suits are withdrawn from the Court for a political solution.” Oladapo mocked Ekiti PDP, saying: “As a member of the APC ruling Party, I take pleasure in the misfortune of the opposition Parties, especially the PDP. “I am wired to create problems for the opposition even if the opposition is at peace with itself. This will insulate my Party, APC, from unnecessary distractions and allow it consolidate its hold on Power and delivers measurable and tangible services to the good People of Ekiti State and make life more abundant for them.” He aded: “I have personal axe to grind with Ekiti PDP that brazenly robbed me of my House of Representatives victory at gun point in 2007 General Elections and went further to manipulate the Elections Petition Tribunal against me. “A certain PDP Governor deployed Ekiti resources against my Personal modest savings during the struggles. I almost became a wreck at the time. My loss was PDP gain in 2007. Therefore, Ekiti PDP misfortune is a thing of joy to me. I am certainly enjoying the PDP music as it’s currently playing dancing galore. “To those that just defected from Ekiti APC to PDP,  you are warmly welcome to your new Ekiti PDP house of commotion. Jumping from frying pan to fire. “Although some, who haven’t made reckless Public statements against Ekiti APC and its Leadership, have cleverly retraced their steps back to APC when they discovered that Ekiti PDP was a hell. “Finally, I will encourage those who can no longer stand the heat in Ekiti PDP to come over to APC. We will be happy to welcome you. We are very peaceful, organised and accommodating. The more, the merrier for us in APC.”