SIR: Many Nigerians must have come across the video circulating in the social media, of a police officer who identified himself rather boisterously as Wyclef while interrogating, nay dehumanizing some suspects including a lady. He is, simply put, a poster boy for overzealousness in the public service. He is also a metaphor for unprofessionalism within the ranks of force men, especially the Nigerian Police. Wyclef did a job that should ordinarily earn him an applause and laurels, but soon rubbished it with his showmanship and unprofessionalism. From the short video clip, it could be deduced that he had successfully apprehended a long-wanted culprit. However, in his insatiable crave for public stunts, he not only dehumanized the suspects, but also demonstrated pettiness at its best. He asked silly questions unrelated to the alleged offence and gave himself out as a randy police officer who profits from people’s weaknesses. That Wyclef video-recorded himself in such a shameful scenario and boasted of sharing it in the public shows that he’s either untrained or untrainable. For crying out loud, is that how Wyclef was taught to parade suspects? Harass them, force words into their mouths and threaten them? To be frank, Wyclef appears to be the portrait of the Nigerian Police. He was just unfortunate that what he thought would give him fame turned against him. That’s how an average police officer conducts himself in relating with the public, except few exceptional ones. Majority of police officers demonstrate crass irresponsibility in the course of duty. Sadly, Wyclef as a law enforcer demonstrated ignorance of the law when he already convicted, tried and adjudged persons who are still suspects to be criminal all in the name of acquiring cheap popularity on social media. His use of vulgar language is another thing many observers are yet to reconcile with. This irritating overzealousness and unprofessionalism in public service, especially amongst the police must stop. It is not enough that the force declared that the officers connected to the ugly incident have been arrested. They must be brought to book earnestly, and the public be aware of it. There should be no house arrangement this time around. The reason why this overzealousness and unprofessional conducts continue unabated is because most perpetrators go unquestioned. By the way, what is the latest about the officer that callously murdered Tina? What of the Air Force guys that dehumanized a lady-doctor some months back/ ‘We are on top of the matter,’ is the usual answer to these questions. That’s why more and more officers continue their unprofessional conducts.