Pupils in terminal classes in public and private schools resumed in Oyo State on Monday after almost four months of staying at home as part of the measures to contain the spread of coronavirus. The pupils resumed for classes as early as 8:00 am in many schools while some allowed pupils to resume till 9:00 am before commencing academic activities. In the schools visited, the students were directed to their classes, which have now been reorganised for social distancing. Teachers supervised their settling down and addressed them on the new normal. They educated them on the virus, how it can be contracted and the need to observe the protocols for the safety of all students and staff.  They were divided into more arms for social distancing purpose. At the Methodist Grammar School, Bodija, JS3 pupils who were hitherto clustered into only two arms, have been spread to six arms. SS3 pupils were also reorganized accordingly. The principal, Mr Emmanuel Ajadi, explained that absence of students in other classes made the reorganisation possible, adding that more teachers have been redeployed to join those teaching the terminal classes. He said only one pupil was barred from entering the school for failure to wear face mask. He added that about 70 per cent of the pupils resumed on Monday, expressing confidence that others will join with time. The Chairman, Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT), Oyo State Wing, Mr Samson Adedoyin, said teachers were excited to resume work after about four months of staying at home. On concerns by some teachers, Adedoyin said teachers will not contract the virus from pupils if they follow the protocols by health experts and make extra efforts to keep themselves safe. He said: “ As teachers, we have to be extra careful. Once we follow the protocols, we won’t contract the virus by God’s grace. That is why we issued a communique last week asking our members to be extra careful and follow directives by health authorities.” The Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, Mr Olasunkanmi Olaleye, expressed satisfaction with the level of compliance with the COVID-19 protocols by staff and pupils. He said no single pupil appeared without face mask in all the schools he visited.  He said: “Compliance with the protocols has been impressive. This shows that the training we conducted for the teachers was apt. I saw enthusiasm in the pupils about school resumption. All we need to do now is to sustain the standards and keep improving.” Olaleye assured that government would test every student and staff or even close down any school where necessary. In the schools visited, the pupils were seen happily learning or playing with one another. Those who merely hung their masks on the chin quickly wore them on sighting our reporter.