 Dr. Muhammad Murtala Aminu, a Trademarks and Intellectual Property Expert cum Law Lecturer at Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto, has been appointed by President Muhammadu Buhari, as secretary to the Nigerian Law Reform Commission. The Nigerian Law Reform Commission is an institution saddled with the responsibility to harmonise national legislation and  also among the four parastatals under the Federal Ministry of Justice. The Secretary of the  Commission is to be the accounting officer while also supporting  the chairman in ensuring that all the rules and regulations relating to the management of the human, material and financial resources of the Commission are adhered to in accordance with the objectives of the Federal Government. Early this year, Dr Aminu  was also appointed  by the World Intellectual Property Organisation (WIPO) to serve as a panelist to assess entries for this year‘s maiden edition of the WIPO National Intellectual Property Essay Competition for students of all tertiary institutions. He expressed  gladness over his appointment and showed gratitude to Almighty Allah. “I am very happy and grateful to Almighty Allah for this appointment given to me,” he said. The new secretary, however, vowed to adhere to the rules of the Nigerian Constitution and  the Nigerian Law Reform Commission Act. He also pledged to work tirelessly in making sure that laws in the country  are up to date and in accordance with international best practices. He  urged law students to be hardworking, devoted and focused  to achieve their aims and objectives. “ If you have any ambition of achieving greatness in your life, you should be hardworking, dedicated and concentrate on your target to achieve your aims and objectives,” he advised. Before his appointment, he was the coordinator of the Diploma programme in UDUS and a member of different committees in the faculty. He has taught numerous courses in the institution which include; Commercial Law, Conflict Law,  Intellectual Property Law, among others.