  This is your first time of running for governor in Ondo State. How hopeful are you? This is the first time I will be contesting to be elected as the Governor of Ondo State. However, I had contested the All Progressives Congress (APC) 2014 and 2018 Primary Elections for the Senate of Ondo North Senatorial District. I traversed all the 72 wards in Ondo North in 2014 and 2018. The primary elections gave me a great opportunity to interact with local party members and understand their needs and yearnings. I must add that although I never contested governorship elections personally, I was actively involved in the 2012 governorship election when I offered strong support to Arakunri Akeredolu, the incumbent governor at the time on the platform of ACN. I was a member of the Party’s Finance Committee. I purchased two buses to support Governor Akeredolu and made other substantial financial contributions for the party during the 2012 election in Ondo State. At that time, I met with Asiwaju Tinubu and assured him of my support for the then governorship candidate. I rejected all entreaties made to me by the Mimiko administration to join the Labour Party at that time. I have also played political major roles. I was the Legal Adviser, Action Congress of Nigeria (UK Chapter) and interim Legal Adviser, All Progressives Congress (UK Chapter) until December 2015. In December 2015, I was appointed the Special Assistant to Minister of State for Niger Delta Affairs of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. I was in that position between December 2015 to March 2017. I must say that I accepted that position only because it offered me an opportunity to serve Nigeria. I did not receive any remuneration but incurred substantial expenses to relocate to Abuja from London. I left the position because I could not compromise my principles and integrity. Your critics said you are not much known politically I had my primary school education between 1970 and 1976 at St John’s Mary Primary School, Owo, St Patrick’s Primary School, Owo and Government School, Owo. I had my secondary school education at Christ’s School, Ado Ekiti between 1977 and 1982. After my secondary education, I got admission to the University of Benin, Benin City, Nigeria where I studied Political Science and graduated in 1987. I undertook the national service at the NYSC Secretariat, Abeokuta, Ogun State between 1987 and 1988. I was the Corps Liaison Officer of Abeokuta Local Government and the Chairman of all the Corps Liaison Officers in Ogun State during my service year. I travelled to the United Kingdom in 1990. I began my law studies at the renowned Holborn College, London in 1992 and passed the University of London Intermediate Laws in 1993. I later proceed to the University of Wolverhampton, United Kingdom where I graduated and had LLB (Hons) and LLM in 1995 and 1996 respectively. I undertook a Legal Practice Course at the then London Guildhall University and was awarded a Postgraduate Diploma in Legal Practice in 1997. I had a doctorate in Law and Policy from Walden University, U.S.A. I am Dr Nat Adojutelegan. I am from Arigidi Akoko, Akoko North West Local Government, Ondo State. I was born over 50 years ago by Chief Magistrate Durojaiye Adojutelegan (deceased) and Chief Mrs Adedolapo Adojutelegan. I am a legal practitioner in the UK. I am a Solicitor-Advocate (Higher Courts Civil Proceedings) of the Senior Courts of England and Wales and the proprietor of NatAdo Solicitors in London. I established the firm about 20 years ago. I am equally property developer and have a property management business. When did you joined politics? I am a founding member of the APC in Ondo State and have made substantial financial contributions to its growth in the state. To mention a few: I bought and distributed Megaphones for APC for the party in Arigidi-Akoko and Akoko Northwest Local Government for use during membership registration. I produced and distributed T-Shirts for APC for the party in Arigidi-Akoko and Akoko Northwest Local Government. I constructed three boreholes in Arigidi-Akoko in the name of APC. I purchased and distributed brand new digital camera for each ward in the Akoko Northwest Local Government for APC membership registration and provided financial support to the wards in the local government to print passport-type photographs for the membership registration. I produced and distributed APC banners and flags to each ward in the local government. I produced APC 10,000 armbands and distributed them throughout Ondo North Senatorial District. I regularly offer financial support to the Party for mobilization during elections. I realised early in my life that the main vehicle you can use to impact people’s lives and society, in general, is politics. Also, I realised that law dictates orderliness in a society and that to have a fair society you need good laws. By nature, I have always wanted to be part of a fair society where everyone can have sustainable livelihoods and good infrastructure and public services. governmental policies. I believe that a good society is where everyone can work and sustain themselves without depending on others for financial support. I hold that view that democracy is the best form of government that can drive the vehicle to a state where that objective could be realised. Growing up, I could see that military rule was dictatorial and autocratic and that most policies were formulated and implemented by military officers and civil servants with little or no recourse to the civil society. The combinations of these factors inspired my interest in law and politics as I believed that I would be able to use them as vehicles to impact society positively. My mission in politics is to instigate social change through political means and bring about socio-economic and infrastructural development through governmental instruments. Initially, I wanted to use the legislative platform to provide good representation to the people, champion good causes and initiate bills that will bring about human and societal development. I was unable to do that because I came third in the 2014 primary elections out five contestants and the 2018 primary election was aborted when our Party decided to return the serving senators in our state. There are many aspirants contesting against Akeredolu. How confident are you to get the ticket of the party at the primary? I am very confident of victory. I never had any personal issues with the governor and was never part of the opposition group, known as Unity Forum. Equally, I was never part of the government. My decision to contest was driven by love for our people and our party. I will never criticise the performance of the governor on the pages of the newspaper, but I make bold to say that I wanted to change the narrative positively in the state. Generally, the people of Ondo State are suffering. They are yearning for relief. They need to educate their children. The need good roads. They need electricity in the south senatorial district. They want to be gainfully employed. They need an enabling business environment where they could thrive and prosper. The general perception across the state is that as a founding member of the party in the state, I am the best alternative to the governor in the party having regard to my strong commitments to the party and the progressives ideals, my international exposure and the realistic objectives that I proffer to make the state great. Ondo State is endowed with many human and natural resources that it continues to amaze me that with these resources we still have a state where people are still experiencing so much hunger. If you say the state has been impoverished, can we now say your party has impoverished the state because the APC has been in charge for the past four years? I didn’t say it just began now. It is a historical impoverishment and abandonment of public services and infrastructure. The governor decided to prioritise certain road projects and other policies. I will surely do things differently and ensure that my policies are people-oriented. I intend to prioritise infrastructural development, and job creation by establishing an enabling environment for industries and commerce. When the APC came on board, people thought there should be a change positively but with what you have said now, doesn’t it mean your party has no answer to the problem? Most of the problems in the state were inherited. It is always easy to destroy but difficult to build. It is not that efforts have not been made. The problem with past efforts was that previous administration never had or follow a clear roadmap to job creation and industrialisation of the state. The past administrations had sought to progress the Awolowo’s ideals of free education, free health service, etc rather than proffering today’s solutions to today’s problems. The incumbent’s ideas have work to a certain extent, and we need new and better ideas. People are used to sweet promises from politicians, but most times when they get there, they change direction. Why should the people of Ondo State believe you? As far as we must elect new leaders every four years, it means we must believe somebody. But the point is, places where I have discussed these ideas, in terms of consultations, I have made it so practicable that people see that it is real. Once we succeed in developing the economy and generating good IGR, we would have the funds for other things and that is why I have placed so much emphasis on re-engineering the economy to provide employment for all and create a good environment for commerce. Akeredolu is from your Senatorial District and zoning we believe still favour him for the second term and don’t you think some people will be wondering why you want to tackle him and destroy his chances? As I said earlier, my decision to contest was bourne by my desire to serve the people of my state. It is simply a call to duty rather than any attempt to tackle or destroy the incumbent’s chances. It is a common saying that there is “nothing to share in zero.” If the members of our party in their wisdom think that we will lose the general election, if we do not change the leadership of the party, it will amount to political dereliction for me to reject the call to service. We are not only from the same Senatorial District, we are members of the same party, we belong to the same zone, we are members of the same profession, we have a lot of things in common, but we also differ in many areas. We have different orientations and priorities. We have different ideas on how to develop the state. We have different perspectives concerning party management and governance. Anyway, it is correct Ondo North should complete another term of 4 years. In essence, if our party members consider it right to change the direction of the party and its leadership, then it is right that another aspirant from Ondo North should be presented as the party’s candidate for the governorship election. In the corollary, it is fair and equitable for someone from Akoko to complete the remaining term of four years. The APC in the state has been going through an internal crisis. Don’t you think this development of will affect the chance of the party in the election? Our party in Ondo State has not been cohesive since the 2014 Congress. Following the congress, some members felt they were ostracised and relegated to the background in the conduct of the affairs of the party in the state. Unfortunately, the division within the party remains unabated after a change of leadership as some members tried to arrogate powers to themselves and monopolise the party’s apparatus. This led to the emergence of parallel executive committees at the ward, local government and state levels in the state. I understand the background of the internal crisis. I have the temperament to unite all the party members in the state if elected. In a specific term, what do you think is wrong that you want to correct, that your kinsman (Akeredolu) failed to do? I don’t think I would say anything is wrong, what I would say is that the present administration has done the best it can do. The current administration has certain ideas. I believe they designed a plan that they wanted to execute on behalf of the people. They have done that and are still doing it. But if people wanted a change, in a democracy they should get it and capable individuals ought to present themselves for service in the circumstances. I trust my abilities and capabilities. I have been tried and tested in very sensitive positions. I have a successful law practice and a good track record in the United Kingdom where solicitors are regulated with the highest standard in the world. I am transparent and accountable in all my activities. I always put people first in everything I do in and out of business. As Governor, I will ensure that all the state’s activities are transparent. I will ensure that the government is accountable to the people of the state. What mode of primaries will you want in Ondo? As mentioned earlier, there are parallel executive committees at the ward, local government and state levels caused by the manner the 2018 Congress was conducted in the state. It is, therefore, of great importance for the party to elect a direct primary as the mode of election in the forthcoming primary election to avoid a deepened internal crisis in the state and a high risk of the annulment of the primary election by the courts.