 Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation’s (NNPC) downstream subsidiary, NNPC Retail Limited, has entered into a partnership with Automatic Fit and Energy Limited (Auto Fit) in the setting up of a vehicle servicing centre in Abuja. In a statement by Auto Fit in Abuja, the partnership in setting up the NNPC Lube Bay became necessary to promote safe motoring and in turn increase patronage for the NNPC. Speaking during the launch of the service centre, Managing Director of Automatic Fit and Energy Limited,  Dr. Olusegun Aderemi, said the partnership with NNPC Retail would bring world class services to Nigerians as it relates to autocare. He said: “With over 25 years of experience and also being a pioneer in this same space , with us constantly updating our techniques and equipment , we believe that we will not be offering anything less in this regard. “With NNPC Retail believing in the partnership and what we have to offer, we have extended a generous discount to all NNPC Staff for every time they bring their cars for servicing at any of our outlet nationwide.” Aderemi, who is also the Atayero of Aramoko Kingdom in Ekiti West Local Government Area of Ekiti, promised that AutoFit would build on the confidence reposed on it by the NNPC, adding that the partnership would be mutually beneficial, especially as the partnership would help accelerate the growth of NNPC Retail. He commended the efforts of the outgoing Managing Director of NNPC Retail, Sir Billy Okoye and the incoming Managing Director, Mrs Elizabeth Aliyuda, in ensuring the actualisation of the partnership agreement. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, who was represented at the event by Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on Political Matter, Senator Babafemi Ojudu, commended the NNPC on the achievement, while he expressed optimism that the partnership would be of immense benefits to motorists by increasing safety in transportation. He said: “The partnership is a good development, as it will provide motorists with highest quality lubricants, proper lubrication processes and services with sustainable value for customers. The relationship will enable customers to achieve their goals, increase business operations and make ambitions a reality. “Effective lubrication service will also boost safety of motorists. Its economical when problems of a car is diagnosed and rectified on time; it will save people a lot of money, time and most importantly stress. The partnership is a good arrangement and would be of huge benefit in transportation.” Osinbajo noted that government was always in support of any good attempt that would make transportation conduicive for motorists. Chief Operating officer (COO) Downstream of the NNPC, Ms Lawrencia Ndupu, described the partnership as a milestone achievement for NNPC Retail Limited, to be able to pursue its goal of safe motoring with a reputable auto and wheel organisation such as Automatic Fit and Energy. Ndupu expressed confidence that the arrangement would endear NNPC service to clients and at the same time boost customers’ satisfactions.  