The 2020 WASSCE will hold betweeen August 4 and September 5, the Federal Government has announced. It asked state governments to open schools for final year students to undergone revision before sitting for the 2020 West African Senior School Certificate Examination. The Minister of State for Education, Emeka Nwajiuba, stated this on Monday during the briefing by the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 in Abuja. The Minister said a decision on when the National Examinations Council (NECO), National Business and Technical Examinations Board (NABTEB) will be taken after the WASSCE. Nwajiuba said: “From the 4th of August to the 5th of September. Parents please take note. “As soon as we conclude WAEC we will take up NABTEB and NECO exams. “Last week the chairman of the PTF announced that school facilities will be available for those who want to go into revision classes. “The idea here is that we have a whole month from now till then (the exam). Those who can, the states who are willing should make their schools available for their children to revise. “We have done the most we can with our representative at WAEC and this afternoon (yesterday) confirmed that the date allotted will be from the 4th of August through to the 5th of September. Local timings will be published.” He said the Ministry of Education would be meeting with officials of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, the Nigeria Union of Teachers and other stakeholders today to finalise the dates announced by the government. The minister said the meeting will also serve as an opportunity to tell operators of secondary schools who are yet to prepare for the reopening of schools to do so. “From tomorrow this is part of what we are taking into our concluding stakeholder meeting with NCDC, Nigeria union of teachers (NUT) and everybody will be at the concluding stakeholders meeting tomorrow and these dates are what we are going to take into the meeting. “We will be asking that those who are not prepared yet should please go and prepare. “We are continuing with registrations for NECO for those who have not concluded registration along those lines, this is the time also to update and get your registration done,” he added.