 Lagos Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Speaker Mudashiru Obasa and Majority Leader of the Assembly, Hon. Sanai Agunbiade, have commiserated with the family, friends and associates of the late member of Lagos Assembly, Hon. Tunde Braimoh, who passed on Friday. Until his death, the late Braimoh, who was running a second term represented Kosofe 11 and was chairman of the House committee on Information, Strategy and Security. In a condolence message, Sanwo-Olu described late Buraimoh as a true democrat, who did his best for the people he served at various levels as Local Government Chairman and lawmaker. The Governor advised the late lawmaker’s constituents to see his death as the will of Allah, noting that no one would have ever imagined the State would lose another very important personality to coronavirus, few days after a distinguished Senator died. The Governor added that Buraimoh’s death, though painful, should be reminder to all that the battle against the ravaging coronavirus pandemic is far from being won. He said: “The death of Hon. Tunde Buraimoh is painful. He died at a time the State had stepped up her fight in the battle against the COVID-19 pandemic. We must not allow the death of Hon. Buraimoh to deter us from forging ahead in our quest to finding a lasting solution to the dreaded disease. “I am saddened by the death of this fine gentleman; a loyal party man and committed democrat, with a deep understanding of the State’s social and political landscape. He died at a time when the member of his constituency and indeed the entire Lagos need his service most. In an emotion laden tribute,Obasa described Braimoh as one of the backbones of the Lagos Assembly whose death hit him like thunder. “As I sit quietly, ruminating about our journey on this earth, how we became close pals, the circumstances that brought us together, Briamoh’s unique voice, his brilliant arguments and postulations, his sequence and enviable use of words that sometimes got us bursting with laughter and respect, his gait, his carriage, then the reality that none of these would be heard or seen again, I melt with thick sweats on my forehead. Can our tears cease? “It has been over 24 hours, yet I am still in search of the right words to portray how I feel currently. It did not come like a lightening. No. It hit like thunder. Maybe. Maybe worse than that. Or how best can one describe the blow death brought upon us with the sudden demise of Hon. Tunde Braimoh? “How best can I understand that one backbone of the Lagos State House of Assembly has been expunged, not even like something taken away temporarily to be returned someday? How best can I pull myself together knowing that we will not see this scholarly politician whose meritorious service has added to the gains of Lagos?  “Tunde Braimoh was not just a lawmaker, he was an ally, he never had ‘no’ for an answer. He knew what to do even before such was brought to his attention. He had a ready answer for all questions. I remember the many times he would walk up to me to tell me about issues. A constant characteristic was that he solved most of them before I got to know. “Hon. Braimoh had plans, great ones, for Lagos State. He had shared some with me. He also always had his constituents in mind constantly thinking of how best to reach them and give them reasons to be happy. “We will be consoled by the fact that the late two-term lawmaker served his State and the Federation of Nigeria with his might and intelligence and contributed immensely to their advancements. But, again, our hearts will continue to grieve. Rest on, dear brother and friend, Obasa said. Agunbiade said the late lawmaker’s sudden death was very painful, “This is one death too many after we recently committed the prophetic Adebayo Oshinowo (Pepperito) to mother earth. “Where is the very active and versatile brain of Tunde Braimoh? Where is your very peaceful mien and stylish smiles of all times? The big Daddy with big, dramatic and oratory expressions has finally dropped the linguistic garb and that legislative lion has ceased to roar in the Lagos State House of Assembly. “We are going to miss your elegant dressing Tunde. Your charismatic assertions shall elude us till eternity. The beneficiaries of your regular philanthropic gestures will have to look elsewhere for succour hence forth. Dear Tunde, tread graciously to your final abode of no pains and no regrets. We shall hold forth for you where our paths have crossed with good memories. “Our prayers shall forever be for you in the lonely castle of your permanent rest. I pray we would not have to give this kind of dirge so soon again. Tunde, sun re ooo. Adieu”, Agunbiade prayed. The late Braimoh was buried on Friday at the Ikoyi cemetery.