The crisis rocking the Ekiti State All Progressives Congress (APC) has gone from bad to worse. RASAQ IBRAHIM reports that the party may suffer electoral defeat in future elections, except the newly-inaugurated Governor Mala Buni-led Caretaker Committee moves fast to avert the looming disaster. The internal strife rocking the Ekiti State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) appears to be deteriorating Stakeholders are going for each other’s jugular to score political points. For the past few months, the politicking within the party has been more of scheming and plotting; key stakeholders have been trading accusations and counter accusations. This has led to the breaking of several alliances. Many erstwhile political allies are now sworn enemies who are constantly engaging in verbal warfare. Many chieftains are now jostling for the control of the party structures ahead of the 2022 governorship election. As a result, the chapter is sharply divided. This development is sending ominous signals that the party may go into the future elections as a disunited house. The APC which basked in euphoria of victory over the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2018 election has found itself in the throes of an internal struggle within two years of its stay at Oke-bareke Government House. The ruling party has been split into two factions; one camp is led by Governor Kayode Fayemi, while the other is led by Senator Babafemi Ojudu. The two camps are currently at daggers’ drawn on their desperate quest to control the party’s soul. Political observers have traced the genesis of the crisis to the intrigues that led to the emergence of Fayemi as the party’s governorship candidate for the July 14, 2018 poll. The governor who was then the Minister of Mines and Steel Development joined the race a few weeks to the party’s primary and altered the political calculus. Apparently, the outcome of the primary did not go down well with frontline aspirants like Chief Segun Oni, Ojudu, Otunba Olusegun Agbalajobi, Oyetunde Ojo, Femi Bamisile, Dr. Wole Oluyede and Bimbo Daramola. But, thanks to the troubleshooting efforts of APC National Leader Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the party was able to calm frayed nerves. Thus, they buried their hatchets and worked for Fayemi’s success in the July 14 poll. However, rather than close ranks after Fayemi’s inauguration and work together for the benefit of Ekiti people, members of the ruling party has been engaged in divisive politics. The governor assumed office and immediately started the process of forming his cabinet. But, instead of carrying major stakeholders along, patronage was restricted to his core loyalists fondly called ‘Fayemi Tokantokan’. Even those elected to the state legislature and the National Assembly were also his close allies. Some aspirants that contested against Fayemi in the primary who were considered as ‘toothless bulldogs’ and less dangerous politicians who could not muster much opposition were given appointments. But, notable ones among them like Daramola, Ojudu, Oni and Ojo were sidelined. Thus, from the outset, the APC has been enmeshed in internal crisis, as aggrieved party bigwigs refused to bow to the dictates of the governor. As preparations for the 2022 governorship election gradually gets underway, they grouped themselves into a powerful bloc to fight and to neutralise Fayemi’s dominant and seemingly oppressive hegemony within the chapter. The ranks of the aggrieved leaders appear to have swelled, as some heavyweights who had hitherto remained on the fence have joined the ‘renegades’. The likes of Senator Adedayo Adeyeye, Adewale Omirin and host of others have joined the fray to prosecute the battle against Fayemi. Political observers are of the view that Adeyeye’s shift of loyalty was expected but astounding. The Prince of Ise-Ekiti left the PDP and joined the APC on the eve of the 2018 poll to team up with Fayemi and was compensated with the party’s senatorial ticket for Ekiti South which he won. But, pathetically, he was removed from the Senate by a Court of Appeal Court judgment which affirmed that Senator Biodun Olujimi of the PDP won the contest. Sources close to Adeyeye told our correspondent that he was incensed by the judicial pronouncement. He is also of the opinion that the party leadership and Governor Fayemi did not lift a finger to assist. Adeyeye felt he did not get the support he needed to retain his seat in the upper chamber. This probably propelled him to team up with the aggrieved leaders. However, the stakeholders who have not hidden their disdain for Governor Fayemi are resolute in their quest to destabilise the government by intermittently launching darts at him. As part of the plot to hijack the party structures, the aggrieved leaders instituted a litigation challenging the legal validity of the party executives at the state, local government and ward levels. The suit seeking to upturn the structures was filed at the Federal High Court, in Abuja by Senator Ojudu, Dr. Oluyede, Ojo, Chief Akin Akomolafe, Ayo Ajibade, Akogun Bunmi Ogunleye, Otunba Ben Oguntuase and others against the APC, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the Inspector General of Police, Ekiti APC Chairman, Paul Omotosho and all members of the State Executive Committee. The plaintiffs alleged that the ruling party did not conduct ward, local government and state congresses and that members of the executive committee at the three levels were handpicked by Governor Fayemi. They prayed that the court should declare the process that produced them as null and void. Ojudu justified the court action by saying the litigants had exhausted all the internal mechanism to resolve the matter. The presidential aide said since the illegality was committed, the litigants “have been calling on them to retrace their steps, by becoming more inclusive and to let their action be guided by law”. He added: “But they said we should go to hell. We complained loudly and got lawyers to write to the APC national headquarters. We exhausted all avenues to resolve the matter. But, we were ignored. There was no congress. What happened was arranged. It took us this long to go to court because our constitution prescribed some steps that should be taken before a matter affecting the party could be taken to court. “We took our time to go through all the steps and this took a lot of time. Taking this action is also not about the governorship election. It is a wakeup call to Fayemi, the party and our leaders both at the local and national levels that things are not going well here.” Since then, the Ojudu-led group has been launching darts at Governor Fayemi over alleged poor performance of his administration, which he said could spell doom for the party. Ojudu lamented that there was lack of governance in the state, describing the Fayemi-led government’s performance as shoddy and short of expectation. He said all the indicators of good governance in the last two years were in the negative mode. The APC chieftain said there are no better indications of Fayemi’s monumental failure than the moribund educational system, comatose health, and the deplorable roads across the state, claiming that even states contending with security challenges are faring better than Ekiti. He added that the Fayemi-led government had no prospect to impact positively on the people in terms of good governance, because no meaningful and tangible achievement has been recorded since he came into power. Apparently rattled by the allegations, Fayemi deployed his political armouries and mercenaries at the ward level to launch an offensive against them. This is why some notable members of the group are facing threat of expulsion, including Ojudu and Oluyede. An impeccable source within the party said the Omotosho-led State Working Committee was allegedly instructed by the governor to ensure those opposing him within the party are axed with suspension. But, Ojudu was spared by the ward executives. Rather than wield the big stick as allegedly ordered by the State Working Committee, the leaders and executives members of the APC in Ado-Ekiti Ward 8 in Ekiti State unanimously passed a vote of confidence on him. The party executives after its marathon meeting last week Wednesday in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital, maintained that the presidential aide has done nothing wrong to warrant any suspension. They described him as a loyal and worthy party man. Oluyede also survived suspension, as his Ugele/Arogun ward in Ikere-Ekiti, Ikere Local Government Area, unanimously passed a vote of confidence on him. The party leaders, after its emergency meeting said that the trained physician had done nothing wrong to warrant any form of punishment from the party, adding that his moral and financial support to the party was immeasurable. In a statement by the ward chairman, Ogunleye Ojo, alongside other 18 executives, the party leaders said that they would not be intimidated or induced in carrying out actions that would spell doom for the party. The ward executives said Oluyede has not engaged in any anti-party activities and that, rather, he has been supportive of the growth of the party. They described him as one who has been forthright and has consistently led by example. The statement reads in part: “We, the executive members of Ugele/Arokun ward executives have jointly moved a motion and hereby pass a vote of confidence on him for his outstanding role in the party both at the local, state and National level. The man in question (Dr. Oluwole) has contributed immensely either morally or financially to the lives of many of APC members at all levels and at both ward, local, state and national at large. “Dr. Oluwole has not for once engaged in any anti-party activities or commits any unpardonable offence that warrants suspension.” Observers are wondering why the alleged suspension plot failed. This, they said, clearly suggested that there is a gulf within governor’s political base. The aggrieved leaders have called on the newly-inaugurated Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker Committee to intervene and caution Fayemi against the alleged use of party machineries to punish members via illegal suspension and alienation from party’s activities. They expressed worries that the party might suffer worse defeat in the next governorship poll in 2022 with the alleged impunity of the governor and existing cleavages in the party. The aggrieved leaders under the aegis of the Ekiti APC Stakeholders Forum, said the popularity of the ruling party at the ward, local and state levels has been waning uncontrollably due to alleged poor performance of the Fayemi-led administration. In a statement entitled “Time to take a stand”, the leaders accused the governor of alienating party executives and victimising critics of his government through the Omotosho-led State Working Committee. Signatories to the statement include Adeyeye, Ojudu, Adeniyi, Ojo, Daramola, Ajiboye, Omirin, Oguntuase, Akomolafe, Ajibade and five others. They listed Senators Adeniyi and Ojudu, Daramola, Ojo, Ogunleye, Oguntuase, Afolabi and Diran Fadipe as among those that had either been “unjustly” suspended or at various stages of suspension in their respective wards. They said: “This gratifying development has informed the need to bring to the attention of the newly constituted committee our concerns about the unfortunate drift of our party in Ekiti State. Prior to now, we have communicated the situation effusively to the dissolved National Working Committee (NWC). “As this new body sets about resetting the future of our party, it has become imperative to acquaint the leadership with developments in Ekiti State. The time has come to bring to the fore the developments in the state and the political realities in our party.” The leaders posited that the victory they recorded in the Ekiti 2018 governorship election was not solely through the governor’s efforts, but rather by the contribution of party members who worked so hard to secure the feat. They advocated for the dissolution of the state executives across all strata, saying their lists were allegedly compiled through undemocratic means by the Minister of Trade, Industry and Investment, Otunba Niyi Adebayo and Governor Fayemi. They added: “This travesty was committed deliberately to completely ostracise people out of the party activities and today that is what has become the rule and not the exemption. In almost two years, the party had not convened any political meeting of stakeholders, no new membership drive , no political activity whatsoever to rev up and consolidate the place and presence of the party in the state since inception of this administration till date. Instead of growth, the membership of the party is dwindling by the day. “Today, any member who expresses a contrary view is seen as a dissident that must be harassed and intimidated, notwithstanding the status, stature, profile, reputation and above all contributions of such person. The state, local government and ward executives, who see the governor as their benefactors capitulate under such threats of removal and denial of patronage to carry out the marching orders to suspend party members without recourse to constitution, just to please their masters, except in Senator Babafemi Ojudu’s ward where the chairman stood his ground not to oblige such a perfidious request.” In a reprisal attack, Publicity Secretary, Ade Ajayi, urged the aggrieved members to re-examine themselves, saying Fayemi was not meddling in the party’s operations. Ajayi said: “They were only engaging in blackmail, because they knew that those suspended took the party to court and it is expulsion if the law is to be followed to the letters.