At a time that the Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof Akin Abayomi, announced that  of 42,348 COVID-19 tests conducted in Lagos till date, 10,926 turned out positive and 1,695 patients have been discharged from Lagos isolation facilities, he also sounded the alarm: “2,430 active cases in the communities are yet to turn up for admission in care centres, either due to fear of stigmatisation or preference for home care treatments.” Undoubtedly, this is a worrying development not only to epidemiologists but also to other residents of Lagos State, and even to occasional travellers to the state from other parts of the federation. It is not surprising that at the present level of social development and scientific awareness, people are more likely to fear being characterised as victims of a contagious disease. While such attitude is understandable in the context of a largely superstitious environment, it is risky to have infected people of COVID-19 untreated and un-isolated. After all, it was just one asymptomatic visitor to Ogun State that brought the virus to Nigeria. Having 20 per cent of people who tested positive to coronavirus running away from treatment in a hospital setting that can guarantee proper isolation portends great danger to the community at large. Given current information about the risk of infection from pre-symptomatic and asymptomatic individuals, leaving 2,430 confirmed cases un-isolated may be part of the reason that Lagos State has been experiencing a rise in the number of infections in the last one month. As the awareness of people toward coronavirus is the most important factor in mitigating the spread of the virus, state/local governments and civil society organisations ought to step up media campaign about the danger in believing that COVID-19 can disappear without proper treatment. Without doubt, Lagos State has been doing very well under the circumstances it finds itself as the epicenter of the pandemic in the country. We, however, urge the state to find strategies to make it difficult for infected people to opt for self-medication or avoid treatment. One way to do this, going forward, may be to insist that people who come for test return physically for their test results, to enable health officials send those that test positive to isolation centres immediately. Establishing one isolation centre in each local government may be helpful in such situation. Relatedly, a special appeal ought to be made to each of the 2,430 infected persons avoiding isolation and treatment. The risk of increased spread of the virus within and around communities in which over 2,000 infected persons live is obvious, given the confirmation that coronavirus is airborne. A stitch in time may still save nine. While we appreciate that Lagos State is already spending lots of resources to increase testing, we also believe that it is necessary to invest more resources to bring thousands of infected persons who are already mingling with other people on the bus, in the market, church, or mosque to where they belong: certified treatment facilities. Just as it is illegal for people not to wear face masks, so should it be illegal for those who test positive to the virus to disregard doctor’s referral to treatment centres.