A pastor in-charge of Assemblies of Light Bearer Greater Church of Lucifer, popularly known as Church of Satan, Ohafia, Abia State, Ifekwe Udo, has narrowly escaped being lynched by angry youths of Ebem Ohafia community. Udo is said to be cooling off in police custody after being whisked away by a team of personnel of the Abia State command of the Nigeria Police Force. It was gathered before the arrival of the police team, angry youths had already pulled down his church building and other monuments/statues in the compound. It was gathered that police had arrested Udo, also known as Lucifer or Fada-Fada, earlier in the week for violating the lockdown protocol directives of the State and Federal government. Udo, who is reported to own a brothel in Ohafia, was also said to have been arrested for allegedly terrorising the community. The development forced youths of the area to destroy the satanic images outside his church when he was arrested. A native of the community, who gave his name simply as Kalu, said people of Ohafia knew his evil practices but nobody could confront him because of his claimed connections with evil forces. Another source, who simply identified himself as Chukwudi, said: “The evil that this man commits in this community is too much. The destruction of his church was done not only by youths in the villages, but including others that came from Lagos, Abuja and Port Harcourt. “This man has been snatching wives from men with charm. He has been doing all manner of things including collecting land by force. “We learnt that he made young men to deposit their sperm in a calabash. His hotel is known for series of notorious activities including promoting prostitution and homosexuality. Our youths are becoming irresponsible and wayward as a result of this man’s activities. “He is dragging the name of our community to the mud and that is why the youths have decided to rise up against him, because if this is allowed to continue, the danger it will bring to our community and the state in general will be unimaginable.”