 The Lagos State Head of Service, Mr. Hakeem Muri-Okunola, has enjoined civil servants to provide better service delivery to the masses. According to him, the state government has been improving the tools that will enhance their working relationship with Lagosians. Muri-Okunola spoke yesterday at Maryland, Lagos while inaugurating a Service Charter and distribution of office equipment to the departments in Educational District II. The items distributed included air conditioners, refrigerators, tables and chairs, laptops, desktops, fans and generators, among others. The Head of Service said he was impressed with the observance of the COVID-19 guidelines and protocols. He urged the officers that would use the equipment to project the state government well. He said: “To whom much is given, much is expected. Service Charter in Lagos is our way of showing to the corporate world that we are also equal to the task and to encourage our workers to treat our citizens as if it was a business and they are our customers. “They are indeed our prime customers and they are supposed to be fulfilled and satisfied with the services that we render. I’m sure that with the equipment delivered today, the working environment will be more comfortable and our workers will be energised for optimal service delivery.” Tutor-General/Permanent Secretary (TGPS) District II, Lagos State Ministry of Education, Mrs. Anike Adekanye, thanked Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu for granting the ministry the approval to procure the equipment. “There is need for us to appreciate Mr. Governor for approving this programme for Educational District II, because its importance in the lives of the officers in relating with the public can never be overemphasised. The governor has directed to remove the old materials and replace them with the new ones. Today, we are distributing the materials to our departments. Our officers will be working with ease and it will have effect on our service delivery to the public,” she said. Adekanye promised to ensure judicious use of the equipment. According to her, productivity will be enhanced as “there is no way one will be in a conducive environment and one will not perform better.” She thanked the HoS and the Commissioner for Education for providing an enabling environment for the development of teaching and learning. 