 THE Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Sunday hinted that although the country has not experienced an exponential increase in the number of infected COVID-19 cases, the infection curve continues to grow slowly. It encouraged everyone to take responsibility by adhering to the non-pharmaceutical preventive measures by wearing masks, social distancing, avoiding large gatherings and maintain hand hygiene. The agency stressed that achieving the ambitious target of having two million people tested in three months is not only the responsibility of the Federal Government but for the entire citizenry. Speaking during a television interview, the NCDC Director-General, Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, said: “There are two things about the curve that we need to remember. If you look at the curve in many other countries across the world, we must really be grateful that we have not seen an exponential increase in cases that many people predicted in Nigeria. “At one point, we thought cases will really rise very sharply. When we saw the outbreak in Kano State, we were really worried and thankfully, we are seeing improvement in the incidence of new cases in highly populated cities of Kano and many other parts of the country. “Lagos is still driving the outbreak and we continue to work intensively with the government of Lagos State. “Even though we present one curve nationally but remember that in real life, there are different curves across the country. “The good news is that we haven’t had the exponential increase in cases. The bad news is that the curve continues to grow slowly but as we continue to respond, where the curve goes is not inevitable – it is dependent on the actions that will take. “There has been a lot of discussions around the diagnostic and treatment side, yes, all of that is important and the government is really focusing on scaling that at Federal and state levels, but what will ultimately lead to a reduction in transmission and what has led to a reduction in transmission in countries that have succeeded is where you have a country and a population come together and do what is necessary. “If you look at figures coming out of countries like Japan and many other countries in Asia and western Europe, you will hardly see anyone not wearing a mask. That is so important. The challenge of not gathering is difficult, but we keep saying that there is no other way at the moment. It doesn’t reduce the cases to zero but it will reduce the numbers.” The NCDC on Sunday lauded the efforts of states government in their response to combating the COVID-19 pandemic, specifically in sample collection, which is critical to testing. Lauding the efforts of Cross River State in boosting its response strategy, apparatus and collaborations, it said that Kogi State has sadly not been encouraging as only little progress has been made in the state. “In Kogi State, progress has not been as great but we will keep pushing. There are people in Kogi State and they are Nigerians like us and our role is to enable them access to testing to save lives. They have as much right as every other citizen in the Federal Republic.”     