 The Maize Association of Nigeria (MAAN) has urged grain farmers and merchants not to unnecessarily increase the price of maize grain, following the recent ban on maize importation into the country. While commending the Federal Government over the ban on importation of maize, said its members have cultivated about 250,000 hectares of maize during this year’s wet season farming. Addressing reporters in Abuja, its National President, Dr Abubakar Bello said the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) had released N16 billion for this year’s Anchor Borrowers Program (ABP). He noted that the CBN has supported the value chain of maize production with all the needed inputs to land preparations to harvesting, aggregation and storage. “With all these great steps being taken by government, the country can be self sufficient in maize production in the next few months if we all believe in the capacity of our farmers and put our hands on the plough. We have done it before and we can achieve it again as it was done in 2005,” he said. Dr Bello however said there was no need for end users to seek for maize importation, stressing that farmers are moving more into large dry season farming where it would increase the availability of maize grains for all end users. He further explained that the Association was already engaging reputable commercial end users of maize to enter into Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) as off takers. “This is to make maize available and provide market for farmers under a fair-trade price to both sides”, he said. He appealed to states that have comparative advantage in maize production, to partner with MAAN by providing large area of arable lands for cultivation by its members, which he said would create more Jobs and make life more meaningful to farmers. “Also, we advise serious entrepreneurs to establish maize processing plants to strengthen the value chain of the use of maize. “To encourage the entrepreneur to do this, government should assist them in accessing machineries. More importantly, we plead that the CBN to provide soft and quick loan facility to interested entrepreneur to establish maize industries,” he said.