With the global economy predicted to go into recession anytime soon following the rampaging effect of the Coronavirus pandemic, Pertinence Group, a people empowerment firm with bias for real estate and investment, has warned that the housing challenge will get tougher, if proper planning is not put in place. Consequently, the firm, at a virtual seminar held earlier in the week, said it is contributing its quota to assist the Federal Government in her efforts aimed at providing shelter for the over 17 million unhoused citizens. In what industry players view as an audacious move, the Pertinence Group, through an initiative called HomeVest seeks to build 100, 000 housing units for Nigerians on an annual basis over the next 10 years. This, the company believes, will greatly complement the federal government’s projected 300, 000 yearly housing units. Explaining the concept, an Executive Director and Co-Founder, Pertinence Group, Mr. Wisdom Ezekiel, said HomeVest is home ownership simplified. He further explained that the firm looked at the housing deficit challenge in the country and decided that it had to be a part of the solution to the housing deficit problem. “That was why we started the Home Vest scheme powered by RealVest, the investment arm of Pertinence Group. With this, we aim to reach out to people by giving them the opportunity to own their own homes through a simplified process of instalment payment. This is some kind of mortgage system, though we are not a mortgage firm. It works like what you have in developed countries- a mortgage system which enables you pay for your own house through your rent payment over a period of time. Some people are already paying N500, 000 or more as rent a year, but this same rent is what Home Vest adds up over a perod of time and the house becomes your upon completion of payment. The good thing is that once your pay up to 50 percent of the house, it becomes your because we hand over the keys to you,” Ezekiel said. He said the firm is constantly coming out with new innovations to solve problems and give people value for living. With these, Ezekiel said his firm is able to help people live a better life, have a roof over their head, and still not drilling a hole in their pocket.