Governorship aspirants of the All Progressives Congress in Ondo State have intensified their campaigns to party delegates ahead of the primary election scheduled for next week Monday, July 20. A total of 12 aspirants including incumbent Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu are in the race but 11 of the aspirants except the Governor wrote a letter to the APC Caretaker Committee demanding the use of direct mode of primary. The aspirants are Chief Olusola Alex Oke, Engr. Ifeoluwa Oyedele, Ambassador Olusola Iji, Mr. Jimi Odimayo, Hon Isaacs Kekemeke, Bukola Adetula, Jumoke Anifowose, Olayide Adelami, Abraham Segun, Dr. Nat Adojutelega and Akin Akinsehinwa. However, the aspirants have changed their campaign tactics to wooing party delegates instead of meeting all party members at their various engagements. This, according to sources, was because the Caretaker Committee has not shifted grounds on the mode of primary. On Monday, Hon Isaacs Kekemeke sent out 3000 letters he personally signed to 3000 delegates assuring them that he would treat them as an important part of his administration if elected and would not use them for party primary election and later dump them. Kekemeke also explained his six cardinal programmes in the letter which included free and compulsory primary and secondary education, quality and affordable health care, food sufficiency amongst others. Governor Akeredolu has scheduled to meet with delegates from the three senatorial districts on different days ahead of Monday’s primary. Engr. Oyedele who was said to have met with delegates from Ondo South Wednesday said meeting with delegates was the same as meeting all party members. He said was part of the preparation but the direct mode of primary is still what they expected to be used. Spokesman for Chief Oke, Rotimi Ogunleye, said Chief Oke was in Akoko area to meet with party members and leaders. Ogunleye stated that the issue of direct mode of primaries has been settled in the protest letter written by 11 aspirants. He said any attempt to hold indirect primaries with party executives would amount to disregard for the APC constitution. One of the aspirants who refused to be named said their fears are that APC governors have hijacked the pary and appeared not ready to compromise on the issue of indirect primary mode. “The Caretaker Committee is not forth coming and procrastinating on the issue of the mode of primary, the best thing is for us to begin our own work and mobilize to displace the governor because while we were in Abuja, he was busy inducing the delegates. So we are all back home to slug it out with him”. Meanwhile, some aspirants especially those from Ondo South were said to have begun jostling to be nominated as running mate to Akeredolu. It was gathered that those seeking to be running mate saw the position as a leeway for easy succession in 2024 since the Southern senatorial district would be expected to produce the next Governor if Akeredolu wins.