Youths from the Niger Delta region, under the aegis of the Niger Delta Initiative for Development (NDID), has chided a former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Joy Nunieh for maligning the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godswil Akpabio in a viral video. The group insisted that her outburst was ill conceived to throw the NDDC into chaos that will negatively impact the region. It however commended the Senator Peter Nwaoboshi-led Senate Committee on the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) over the ongoing probe on the Commission. In a statement jointly signed by its National President and General Secretary, Malachi Chukwuka and Endurance Ossai, respectively, the group expressed disappointment over the failure of NDDC directors to properly guide the Interim Committee. They also appealed to the Senate Committee to sheath its sword in the interest of the region and allow activities to resume in the Commission. According to the statement, “the NDID is disappointed by the report of the Directors as presented at the Senate Public Hearing, which shows that they are unprofessional. So we urge the NDDC to send the Directors for proper training for at least three months to know how the NDDC board runs. “We are by this medium, calling on our Senator, Peter Nwaoboshi to please ask members of his Committee to sheath their sword on the interim board of the NDDC. We are appealing in the interest of the Niger Deltans and we also urge the Distinguished Senator to disregard Joy Nunieh’s allegation against the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio and Dr. Cairo Ojogbo”. On the embattled former NDDC Managing Director, Nunieh, the group noted, “Nunieh Joy is an enemy of Niger Delta. For her to publicly make those damaging and unverifiable allegations against the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, shows that she does not have in the interest of the region at heart. “We are suing for peace because the Niger Delta region is in very bad shape now that we are in the rainy season and the Interim Board needs to go back to work”.