Weeks after government affected staggered re-opening of airports for domestic travels, statistics reveal that passenger-traffic and other commercial activities indicate that the airlines and airports are gliding into a lull. KELVIN OSA OKUNBOR writes that COVID -19-induced fear of flying; poor purchasing power and technology-driven virtual meetings have continued to threaten the return of passengers to buzzing terminal buildings. For indigenous carriers that resumed domestic flights two weeks ago, reaching and meeting the demands of the latest “New Normal” phenomenon in global aviation may be taxing. The “New Normal” phenomenon was triggered by the debilitating effects of the Coronavirus disease. The carriers returned to operations after three months of clobbering occasioned by the loss of revenue, new protocols and virus-induced fear for passengers’ reluctant return to the aircraft cabins. Nevertheless, things are not getting “normal”’ for indigenous carriers as the initial optimism that greeted the return of flights on July 8, 2020, is beginning to wane. Investigations reveal that airlines are experiencing steady slide in passenger-traffic on major corridors otherwise known in the Nigerian aviation sector as the “Golden Triangle”’ – Lagos – Abuja – Port Harcourt routes. Despite the raft of health, safety and airworthiness protocols put in place by aeronautical and related agencies to buoy passengers’ enthusiasm to return to the skies; projections for the spike in load factor is presenting dismal results. Aircraft on the fleet of scheduled operators such as Aero Contractors, Arik Air, Air Peace, Dana Air, Overland Airways, Max Air and AZMAN Air now tear into the skies with limited passengers. Besides airlines, the airport authority – Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) also have their share in the lull in commercial activities at airports. These agencies are statutorily entitled to earn revenue from the volume of passenger traffic that turn up at airports in the form of Passenger Service Charge (PSC) for FAAN and five per cent Ticket Sales Charge (TSC) for the NCAA. Besides airlines, car hire operators, catering outfits and other concessionaires that operate at airports are also experiencing difficult times; no thanks to declining passenger-traffic at airports. Like a vicious circle, the entire value chain is gasping for oxygen as the sector navigates around COVID -19, which has hit air travel like a tsunami. The economy of air travel, investigations reveal, is tied to the number of airports so far opened by the government in compliance with the guidelines set by relevant agencies. Experts say part of the reasons indigenous carriers are experiencing hard times is that international flights are yet to resume. Aviation analyst and industry consultant, Mr Tayo Ojuri said international passengers contribute over 30 per cent load factor on domestic operations as feeder carriers. He said until international flights resume, operators will grapple with oscillating passenger traffic. Besides, the feeder factor, he attributed low passenger traffic to a cut on the national budget, which, by extension, has reduced expenditure for travel by officials of government agencies as well as a reduction in the number of people allowed for meeting prescribed by the Presidential Task Force on COVID -19. Ojuri said the low ebb of economic activities on major routes, including Lagos – Abuja will have debilitating effects on air travel as the economy recovers from the shocks of the COVID -19 pandemic. He said disruptions on the national economy will naturally have telling effects on the movement value chain, saying low purchasing power for workers, who are either forced to work from home following redundancy declared by some organisations and other factors. Timeline for airports re-opening In the last three months, the aviation industry has been exposed to a lot of shocks caused by the devastating effects of COVID-19, resulting in the absence of commercial and other activities around airports. In a model executed in phases, terminals started re-opening following carefully designed safety, health and airworthiness protocols announced by the government. While the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos and Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport (NAIA), Abuja opened for a flight on July 8, 2020; Port Harcourt International Airport (PHIA), Omagwa, Rivers State, Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport (MAKIA), Kano and Sam Mbakwe International Cargo Airport (SMICA), Owerri opened on July 11, 2020. Airports in Yola, Kaduna and Calabar opened for flights on July 15. But, not all airports have been opened to flights. Airports in Sokoto, Katsina and Kebbi were ready for inspection as at Friday, July 17, 2020. According to investigations, airports in Benin, Akure, Ilorin and Ibadan which were not yet ready for re-opening were inspected on July 20. Airports in Maiduguri and Jos were inspected on July 18, ahead of their re-opening. Investigations further revealed that state government-owned and privately managed airports in Bauchi, Gombe, Asaba, Dutse, Escravos and Osubi are not yet ready for inspection for eventual re-opening. Airlines’ experiences so far The airlines, which have resumed operations so far, include Arik Air, Air Peace, Dana Air, Azman, Max Air, Ibom Air, Ibom Air and Aero Contractors. Since the resumption, the airlines have been flying less than 50 per cent of their capacity. For instance, on July 8, 2020, Air Peace had the highest number of passengers with 112 passengers on a Boeing 737 aircraft which could take more than 140 passengers depending on the configuration. Arik Air same day had less than 100 passengers on its flight. Ibom Air on its part also recorded over 60 passengers on its Lagos/Uyo flight on July 8, 2020. But sources said the passengers’ tally had continued to dwindle since the first set of flights. Analysis of last week’s morning and afternoon flights operated by most of the airlines indicated that all of them carried between 40 and 50 per cent of their aircraft capacity. For instance, a Lagos-Port Harcourt morning flight of one of the airlines had 10 passengers and it returned to Lagos with 34. Another of the airlines had 28 outbound passengers and recorded 49 inbound passengers. Also, one of the Abuja-Port Harcourt flights indicated that one of the airlines departed with 58 passengers and returned with 53. Since then, however, some carriers have had to fly with passengers ranging from 34 to 53. On a particular flight, an airline flew as low as 10 passengers. Experts, who spoke with our correspondent, said airlines would continue to record low passenger-traffic as an aftermath of the pandemic which occasioned decline in businesses. They said as long as there were little businesses to transact, the load factor would remain low. The poor patronage would persist till the end of 2020, they predicted. An aviation security consultant, Captain John Ojikutu, said most of the regular passengers and businessmen frequenting Lagos and Abuja were no longer flying. He said: “It is very obvious that since the economy is down, the people to activate that economy must be down.” Ojikutu said the flights shot up on the first day of resumption because people were stranded and noted that air traffic would be down for the next two years. He said the statistics of passenger traffic so far were not encouraging. Ojikutu further said where some flights were carrying 10 to 20 passengers should have forced the stakeholders to make serious rethinking on slot allocation to airlines. “May I suggest that where airlines are not ready for code-sharing on domestic routes, the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) could designate two to a maximum of three different airlines to operate on alternative days. “If the passenger-traffic continues the way it’s been in the last few days, the industry could suffer more recessions than it is already suffering and will lose the confidence of the public and whatever palliative government applies would end up as waste,” he said. An aircraft engineer and Chief Executive of 7 Stars Global Hangar, Isaac Balami, said that people had not earned money was a huge factor in passenger-traffic. Air Peace spokesperson, Stanley Olisa, said the airline had put out information to encourage people to take to the skies again. However, an aviation consultant, Olumide Ohunayo, said passenger traffic was low because no one was encouraging travel. Ohunayo added that the new normal of virtual meetings had also played a contributory role. As of July 19, 2020, only 11 airports out of 22 have opened for domestic flights. Last week, some airlines cancelled flights because of low patronage. Though Kaduna Airport has resumed, it is yet to record high-level load factor on the route, forcing carriers plying it to cancel flights. Maiduguri Airport, it was learnt, may suffer a similar fate because of low passenger traffic. The Sam Mbakwe International Cargo Airport, Owerri since it re-opened has been having few flight services with a limited number of passengers. Investigations reveal that airlines flying into routes outside Lagos and Abuja are struggling to get passengers on board. Flight movements within Lagos, Abuja and Port Harcourt last week indicated low patronage. For instance, Air Peace flight P47196 to Lagos-Port Harcourt had 10 passengers outbound and 34 on the inbound. Arik Air Flight AW3740 on the same route had 28 passengers on the outbound, and 49 for inbound. Aero Contractors’ NG381 flight on Abuja-Port Harcourt had 28 passengers on outbound and 49 for inbound. Dana Air flight 0341 on Lagos-Port Harcourt had two passengers on outbound and 13 for the return leg. Experts have, however, described load factor as the number of occupied seats on a flight. They said airlines have been struggling to attain between 15 and 50 per cent load factor since flights resumed. This, experts say, depends on the airline, route, flight and time. To cut losses, airlines are now cancelling flights over poor passenger-traffic. An official of one of the airlines attributed the flight’s cancellation to the low passenger-traffic. “We also feel pained cancelling our flights and disappointing our customers. What choice do we have with less than 20 passengers in a plane that should sit about 150? The return leg had about six booked passengers. Yet, it is the same fuel of about N1 million that the plane will use. Instead of losing more money, airlines are cancelling some of the flights. I hope things will be better and more passengers will come on board,” he said. Managing Director of Aero Contractors, Captain Ado Sanusi, last week, said the airline’s average load factor was between 15 and 30 per cent – a far cry from a commercial aircraft’s breakeven limit. Sanusi, however, said that “the modest traffic” was expected at the early stages of resumption after three months of COVID-19-induced lockdown. “We got what we expected. We didn’t expect the airlines to start with 50 per cent load factor. That is how it is all over the world. We only hope that the flying public will still have the confidence to fly with us again,” Sanusi said. Gloomy picture Experts have predicted a gloomy future for Nigeria’s aviation industry as a result of the low passenger-traffic that has characterised the sector since domestic flights resumed. The poor passenger-traffic, experts say, has dashed the hopes of several operators who recorded a reasonable amount of passenger traffic on July 8, 2020. Most terminal buildings remain empty as airlines wait for the return of passengers, who hitherto trooped into the facility scrambling for space. Car hire operators at Murtala Muhammed Airport Terminal Two (MMA2) and the General Aviation Terminal of Murtala Muhammed Airport Terminal 1(GAT) lament low patronage, which they attributed to fear of virus infection and dip in passenger traffic. Besides, operators of gift shops, eateries, bookshop and accessories dealers at the departure and arrival halls complain of lower sales. Ibom Air tourism strategy But some operators, such as Ibom Air is not leaving anything to chance as it is leveraging tourism to boost passenger traffic. On Monday, July 20, 2020, the carrier launched flights into Calabar, the Cross River State capital. The inaugural flight to Calabar from Lagos was operated with the Ibom Air CRJ900. Former Cross River State Governor Mr Donald Duke said he was excited about this development as the airline service to the city would open up businesses in the state. He stated that before now, they were deprived of not being able to move in and out of Calabar at will, adding that with Ibom Air connecting the state with Lagos and Abuja directly, the people and visitors would be encouraged to come in and go out at any time. Duke said the hospitality industry in the state would benefit fully and small businesses were bound to spring up. “Commuting and all that, unfortunately, until lately, it’s only been one flight in and out of Calabar. So, this adds to it, this adds more commerce to the city when people can go in and come out more frequently and there are more visitors, so the hospitality industry will benefit because our people can benefit lots more. “Overall, it will become a destination; you are not a destination if I can’t get to you. So, people can come in here and leave at will, and then you are a destination.” Duke, who commended the airline for maintaining high safety standards and always keeping to departure time, urged the people of the state to patronise Ibom Air to get value for money and the best of service. “Ibom Air is noted for living up to standards. They leave on time and they do things the right way even though it is very new in the industry, they have kept very, very high standards that I want to encourage them to maintain those standards and also want to encourage our people to patronise the airline.I am sure with them coming to our state will be better off. Commercial life will be better off and I also believe that it would help further the relationship among people of both states. “I want to congratulate the government of Akwa Ibom State for setting up the airline and commend the management. They have done very well. “I am excited because one of the things that we have been deprived of is being able to move in and out of Calabar at will. Even more exciting is that it is from a sister state. I am always excited when I hear them speak the local dialect on the aircraft like there are some nostalgic feel to it,” he said. Ibom Air Director Airline Services, Amaka Echetabu said the airline was happy to spread its wings to Calabar in this unprecedented time and was determined to sustain its on-time departure, schedule reliability and superior service. She emphasised that no matter how the market shrinks, people would be expected to be moved from one place to the other and the airline was here to carry out that movement. Echetabu pointed out that Akwa Ibom and Cross River states are sisters and as a family, they cannot do business without each other, adding that the coming of Ibom Air would further help the economies of doing business in Cross River State. “It’s all about the market really. I would say that Calabar is a sister state. They definitely need us here. It is not really about how many, it’s how well and we are going to come here and put in our best,” he said. She further explained the flight schedule thus: “We have a restart schedule that begins from Lagos at 8:30 in the morning, arrives in Calabar at 10:25 in the morning. We have a 45-minute time on the ground here. It departs for Abuja and it gets back to Calabar and departs Calabar for Lagos at 2:20 p.m. “So, you can come in, do whatever you want to do, catch up with us in the afternoon to Lagos and we can take people into Abuja as well and bring them back. We really thought it through and for now, this is what we are doing. It can only improve with time. We are really excited to be here.”