The BBNaija Lockdown kicked off amidst glam on Sunday with host, Ebuka Obi-Uchendu returning for the fourth time. Already, social media platforms, like Twitter and Instagram, have been buzzing with faces of some of the housemates. Just as it is expected, fans and viewers are beginning to root for one housemate or the other. Here are the 20 housemates planning to remain in the house for 71 days to win the grand prize of N85 million:  Emuobonuvie Akpofure Nickname: Neo Age: 26 Emuobonuvie, popularly referred to as Neo, is a ride-hailing app driver and Delta native. Although he describes himself as fun, tolerant, loving and smart, he won’t hesitate to be Indaboski Bahose when it comes to issues concerning bullying and inequality Eric Akhigbe Nickname: Eric Age: 24 Eric is a final year student at the University of Lagos and hails from Edo State. The bodybuilder is a confident hunk who takes pride in his 1.95m height. He describes himself as a fun, competitive sports and fitness enthusiast who enjoys winning. Eric also describes himself as a shy person who takes his time to unveil his wild side. Timmy Sinclair Nickname: Tricky Tee Age: 35 Sinclair is a 35-year-old creative artist and Lagos resident who hails from Bayelsa. Tricky Tee, as he is also known, considers himself a storyteller who uses film and music to express himself. Ozoemena Chukwu Nickname: Ozo Age: 27 Consultant and entrepreneur Ozoemena “Ozo” Chukwu (27), is from Imo State. One of his greatest achievements is working with a UEFA Federation in Europe. It is no surprise then that when he is not busy consulting or managing his urban clothing line, you’ll find him analysing sports and watching documentaries and TV shows. Terseer Kiddwaya Nickname: Kiddwaya Age: 27 Terseer Kiddwaya is self-employed and comes from Benue. Being a Big Brother Naija season 5 Housemate has Kiddwaya anticipating a better and crazier 2020. He describes himself as confident, good looking, ambitious, a daredevil who is highly motivated. It is no surprise then that “bringing back the fun into the House” is what he won’t compromise on this season.  Lucy Essien Nickname: Lucy Age: 30 Lucy Essien is a 30-year-old entrepreneur from Lagos. Though she is a self-proclaimed simple girl, she assures everyone that she is far from average. She believes in fairy tales, and hopefully, Biggie’s House will deliver just that for her. Florence Wathoni Anyansi Nickname: Wathoni Age: 29 Florence Wathoni Anyansi is a 29-year-old fashion entrepreneur. This multi-talented single mother juggles a fashion business and a parenting blog. She is also bilingual and speaks and writes in Swahili fluently. Aisha Umaru Nickname: Kaisha Age: 25 Aisha ‘Kaisha’ Umaru is a 25-year-old entrepreneur from Sokoto. This adventurous young woman considers herself a great team player who gets along with people. She relies on a healthy diet and is God-fearing. Tolani Baj Nickname: Tolanibaj Age: 27 Tolani Baj is a 27-year-old media personality from Lagos state. Tolani is an energetic gingered babe. People always call her the life of the party and when she’s not entertaining, she’s dancing and cooking.  Dorathy Bachor Nickname: Dorathy Age: 24 Dorathy Bachor is a 24-year-old entrepreneur from Lagos. She believes she is the only one who can make you smile. Her sassiness will prove to be an asset in Biggie’s house. Victoria Adeyele Nickname: Vee Age: 23 Adeyele is a musician based in Lagos, Nigeria. Vee, as she is affectionately known, was born and raised in London and moved to Lagos almost a year ago to begin her music career where she has already made great strides. Rebecca Hampson Nickname: Nengi Age: 22 Hampson is an entrepreneur from Bayelsa. She is a former model and MBGN Top 5 contestant, who loves learning new things, having fun, travelling, taking on new adventures, and being true to herself. Nengi, as she prefers to be called, studied communications at the University of Port Harcourt and is a proud Capricorn. She proclaims: “If you want the job done right, give it to a Capricorn. I put 110% of my energy and enthusiasm into everything I do.” Kate Jones Nickname: Ka3na Age: 26 Jones is an entrepreneur from Rivers, Nigeria. She describes herself as a strong woman who wants more from life. Her dream is to be famous and own the biggest luxury fashion brand in the world. She also believes she will make the perfect Housemate because she is ready to do all it takes to compete and win Big Brother Naija season 5. Ngozi Nlewedim Nickname: Erica Age: 26 Erica is an actress and commercial model from London, England. Erica is the name she goes by and she returned to Lagos after studying screen acting at the Met Film School in London. Boluwatife Aderogba Nickname: Lilo Age: 23 Lilo is a dietitian from Lagos, Nigeria. Lilo, as she prefers to be known, is also an entrepreneur and describes herself as “a product of God’s grace”. Olamilekan Agbeleshe Nickname: Laycon Age: 26 Laycon is a 26-year-old singer and rapper from Lagos. He’s a graduate of philosophy from the University of Lagos who started his musical journey at an early age and has emerged as one of Nigeria’s most promising new school acts. He describes himself as being versatile and able to coin words together to soothe scenarios and moods.  Ezekiel Bright Osemudiame Nickname: BrightO Age: 29 Osemudiame is a 29-year-old sailor from Edo. Brighto, as he is fondly called, is the youngest of six kids. He holds a degree in Marine Engineering from Arab Academy for Science Technology and Maritime Transport in Alexandria, Egypt with several other professional certifications. He also had a stint in the aviation sector. He considers himself an avid entertainment lover and a people’s person. Praise Nelson Nickname: Praise Age: 28 Praise Nelson is a 28-year-old dancer from Enugu. Not new to fame or competing, he was a winner at the K-Pop World Festival, South Korea 2015 and won third place at a national Dance Competition in 2010. He is also a fitness and personal trainer and a certified Latin ballroom expert. Tochukwu Okechukwu Nickname: Tochi Age: 28 Tochukwu Okechukwu Tochi is a 28-year-old rapper and real estate agent from Imo state. He lives and breathes entertainment. He confesses to being clumsy on some days! Nelson Enwerem Nickname: Prince Age: 24 Prince is an entrepreneur from Abia. A jack-of-all-trades whose portfolio includes modelling, fashion designing and interior decoration. He enjoys active sports and reading about ancient religions and African history. He’s a graduate of pure physics from the University of Calabar and is currently living in Lagos.