The All Progressives Congress (APC) on Saturday asked Nigeria’s anti-graft agencies to investigate the link between some leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the suspected fraudster Ramon Olorunwa Abbas popularly known as Ray Hushpuppi. The party’s Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Mr.Yekini Nabena, said in Abuja that the arrested suspect should be a matter of serious interest to relevant authorities in Nigeria. But PDP chieftain, Dr.Bukola Saraki, said the APC statement was irresponsible while former Vice President Atiku Abubakar called it mischievous. Hushpuppi was arrested in Dubai on June 10 by the UAE security agencies and deported to the United States where he appeared in court on Friday. He is facing charges of conspiracy to launder millions of dollars from business email compromise (BEC) frauds and other scams. The  APC, commenting on the development yesterday, said that although the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) had earlier declared the suspect wanted for fraud, the anti-graft agency, the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) and similar organisations “must investigate money laundering reports linking some PDP leaders and financiers to the Dubai-based international criminal ring.” Nabena said the security agencies should unravel the choice of Dubai for the pre-2019 general election ‘strategic’ meetings of the PDP and the reported relationship between Hushpuppi and some leaders of the opposition party. “At different times, “Hushpuppi” was seen photographed in Dubai meeting with the PDP’s 2019 presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar; former Senate President, Bukola Saraki; former Speaker, House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara; Senator Dino Melaye, among other PDP stalwarts. “While relevant authorities investigate the nature of their relationship and business partnership, we also challenge the PDP leadership to do same by opening up on the nature of the relationship, particularly the kind of services the arrested “Hushpuppi” provided them.” On the forthcoming Edo and Ondo governorship elections, the APC warned against monetised elections and vote buying schemes which it claimed the PDP deployed in past elections. APC’s statement irresponsible, cheap politics, says Saraki Former Senate President Bukola Saraki described the APC statement as irresponsible and cheap politics, especially for trying to link him with Hushpuppi. Saraki declared that he has “no form of association with the said suspect… and does not know him in any way.” “The statement credited to the APC, the ruling party in our country, is one of the ways by which our anti-graft agencies are weakened and why the fight against corruption in the country is often viewed with suspicion by the international community,” Saraki said in a statement through his media aide, Yusuph Olaniyonu. Continuing, he said: “This is because when these cyber-crime suspects were operating freely and openly displaying wealth, the APC saw nothing bad in their activities. “Also, the party at that time did not deem it necessary to call on the anti-graft agencies to investigate their activities. “Also, since the arrest of those cyber crime suspects and the subsequent damage to the image and the economy of Nigeria as well as the crisis it created for Nigerians engaged in lawful businesses across the world, the ruling party had been muted. “The only time the APC deemed it necessary to make a statement was when it thought it should play dirty, cheap and irresponsible politics.” He asked the APC leadership to rein in Nabena and “compel him to desist from making and circulating such malicious, odious and offensive claims.” It’s mischievous to link me to Hushpuppi —Atiku In his own response, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar said it was “curious that the All Progressives Congress is “mischievously trying to link” him with Hushpuppi, simply because they took a photograph together. Atiku’s media aide, Paul Ibe, said the photograph was taken at “an event where many Nigerians had gathered.” He added: “For the avoidance of doubt, it was a mere photo-op and not at any meeting as being ingloriously speculated. “We would advise the APC and Mr. Nabena to be very mindful of such senseless statements in the future, especially as the case under reference is a subject of litigation in another country. “Had they been more sensitive, they would have come to terms with the reality that the case is a national embarrassment – not something to cheer about for any political blackmail.”