Youths under the umbrella body of Nigeria Youth Corporate Social Responsibility Funds (NYCSRF) have called for collaborations in the fight against coronavirus. The organisation called on the three arms of government to join relevant bodies to contain the spread of the disease. Director-General of NYCSRF, Vincent Ubani, said the organisation was working with the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control(NCDC) and the National Primary Health Care Development Agency and other bodies to ensure COVID-19 pandemic is contained. Ubani, in a communique, said: “Presently as the situation is, it is a known fact that the Covid-19 pandemic record has not even reached its peak in Nigeria let alone being close to complete eradication. This peak is expected to be reached in September. “In lieu of this, there is, therefore, a possibility of an imminent danger of serious community transmission and a subsequent fatal community dwellers health risk in the very near future. This can be confirmed by the sharp increase of recorded Covid-19 cases in the country recently.” He said the organisation has mobilised 38,700 youths, including young parents as volunteers in the fight against the pandemic. Ubani said the volunteers have been working with the NPHCDA since March sensitising people from door to door in communities on the protocols of the task force on covid -19 with no pay. “It is important at this point, to stress that the 50-man group of volunteers that we attached to each local government of the federation have been one major tool used by the Primary Health Care Department to carry out some of their daily statutory functions. “Despite the unavailability of Personal protective gears, safety materials and other necessities mentioned above and with the knowledge of their vulnerability to this disease, our volunteers have remained resilient and unwary in discharging their patriotic duties. “On this ground, we appeal for adequate resources, some of which were highlighted in our previous letters to different stakeholders managing the spread of the virus from all arms of Government,” he added.