 THE National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF) has called on the Federal Government to probe how things work at the seaports. The body said it is worried that “nothing seems to be working the way it ought to’’. The founder of the association, Dr. Boniface Aniebonam, raised the issue  during the kitting of the association’s “Compliance Team”, an  enforcement unit of the organisation, set up few months ago to enforce compliance at the ports. The call is coming against  an alleged system collapse at the seaports. He said the problem required urgent  government’s attention. All the government agencies at the ports, he said,  have failed, leaving the operators to suffer. He said the ports are in a state of war and when this happens, people take laws into their hands. “There is a total breakdown at the ports; in a war zone, when there is a system collapse, tactics take over. Since there is a system breakdown, we want to help ourselves. Nothing is working, we cannot predict the business we are doing; what we are experiencing is loss. The government should set up a Presidential Enquiry to see how things are working in our ports,” he said. Aniebonam stressed that the tactics being put in place to be on top of the situation are self- control, self-regulation and self-compliance. Asking freight forwarders to rescue themselves, he averred that many of them are hypertensive because nothing is predictable in cargo clearing  again.  He hinted that the intention of the government to make the ports competitive has been defeated. “The real operators are conniving and are not adding value. We’re beginning to see that we are not going forward. Our principals (shippers) are losing. “As a matter of fact, for freight forwarders to earn and sustain their means of livelihood, they must learn to add value and get things done properly. Freight forwarders are surrounded by enemies who want things to remain haphazardly, you should take your destiny in your hands by ensuring compliance in all ramifications,” he said. He however advised freight forwarders to be on the side of the law at this auspicious time so that their goods cleared in the ports can get to their warehouses without problem. He explained that the 100 percent Compliance Team is meant to bring respect and honour to freight forwarding through honest declarations. The National Coordinator of the NAGAFF’s 100 percent Compliance Team, Alhaji Ibrahim Tanko, sought for the total cooperation of the team in carrying out their functions in the ports. Tanko warned members against infighting and to report challenges and infractions to the NAGAFF Headquarters for redress. He promised that soon, all the association’s Chapters will be given buses to aid their logistics problems.