Ekiti State former Governor Ayodele Fayose has said the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will not welcome the  Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on Political Matters, Senator Babafemi Ojudu and ex-Minister of Works Senator Adedayo Adeyeye. Fayose said the opposition party would not welcome the duo into its fold, should they attempt to join the party, because of their differences with Governor Kayode Fayemi. Ojudu and Adeyeye, who are members of the All Progressives Congress (APC), are at loggerheads with Fayemi over the governor’s alleged dictatorship and victimisation of members. The ex-governor was reacting to Ojudu’s remark that his dead body would not join the PDP. Ojudu had said: “If I die and they put PDP flag on my coffin, I will wake up, tear it and go back to sleep.” In a statement yesterday by his media aide, Lere Olayinka, Fayose said: “Besides not having electoral values, they are blackmailers and individuals whose needs are insatiable. Above all, God’s anger has caught up with them in their inordinate quest for power.” The former governor described Senator Ojudu as a political “opportunist”, who is always fighting for his selfish gains. Fayose said: “He fought against Niyi Adebayo, myself, Segun Oni and he is fighting Fayemi now. Who will please him in Ekiti?” The ex-governor added:” Ojudu is a political opportunist, a senator by accident, who is always striving to destroy any government in which he can’t have his way.  “He can continue with his usual voyage of political blackmail. That is his business and that of his party, the APC. “As for us in the PDP, we are not interested in making any gain from the reckless political life of a man who does nothing other than to destroy the government of Ekiti.” An APC chieftain, who is also a former deputy governor, Mr. Abiodun Aluko, appealed to the aggrieved party leaders to embrace reconciliation and allow Fayemi  consolidate and deliver the dividends of democracy to the people . “The Fayemi government now pays salary and pension regularly before the end of the month, unlike before when the government owed six to nine months’ salary and pension despite regular federal allocations, bailouts, Paris refund and budget support funds, which are not available now. “Road constructions in each of the senatorial districts are ongoing. There is industrial revolution in the agricultural sector. The hitherto abandoned social and economic infrastructures such as the Civic Centre, Ikogosi Warm Spring,  Ado-Ekiti Central Market and renovation of schools are nearing completion. “It’s when we support the governor that he can do more and perform to the optimum, so that Ekiti people can always prefer APC to other parties in future elections and ensure continuity of good governance,” he said.