Movie producer, Ayo Adey-Kosh has revealed why celebrity marriages often crashed. According to the graduate of Psychology from the University of Lagos, divorce is not unique to any industry or race or ethnicity. “A lot of marriage doesn’t last, it’s not unique to any industry or race or ethnicity. Marriages don’t last because one or both parties are not willing to compromise or sacrifice.” On challenges faced as a movie producer, Ayo Adey-Kosh mentioned, “Finance, availability of good locations for the shoot and getting my movies out on the right platform. Most Nigerian tv platform give us diaspora producers a lot of problems, they make it even harder to get our movies out there, it’s like a gang up. So now a group of us are changing the narrative, if they won’t support us, we make our own platform”. Despite the challenges that come with her career, she still finds time for her family. “I just organize myself, give myself a sort of time table. Each day I spend about 2 hrs or a little more on anything movie-related including social media. Another 2hrs on my decoration business, the rest of the day is for my family and other things I need to do. I even set alarms so I don’t spend too much time on my work. And when I need to go for a production, I plan it with my husband. So it’s actually pretty easy for me”. She further speak on the current project she’s working on, she gave the title as “Ile Iku”. “It’s about a reality TV show where people are mysteriously disappearing, being murdered. With six movies produced so far, Ayo Adey-Kosh finds it difficult to recollect all the movies she has featured in. She, however, mentioned ‘Ta lo loko’ as the most memorable role she has played in a movie. On what she finds fascinating about the movies, she said, “the pr9egnant wife whose husband‘s first wife (assumed dead ) appeared from nowhere”. She also loves Do-it-yourself projects. According to her, “I love making beautiful things with my hand. I have an online store I sell handmade wedding and event decorations”. Her first movie titled ‘Oga’ features Femi Adebayo, tope osoba, Jamiu Azeez, Shola Kosoko, Toyin Adewale, etc was produced in 2013. Ayo Adey-Kosh has also featured in several movies like strippers, iwe igbelu, Iwalewa, ojiji oga, ife ati Etan, family blackmail, Sino and many more. With all she has achieved in her career, Ayo Adey-Kosh believes her “biggest moment is yet to come”. Born on March 18, 1983, in Lagos, Ayo Adey-Kosh is the eldest of three girls given birth to by her parents. She is happily married to Josh Kosh and blessed with a son.