The Federal Government has filed charges against suspended Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on Prosecution, Okoi Obono-Obla. It accused him of abusing his position and falsifying his academic credentials. A lawyer with the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC), Osuobeni Ekoi Akponimisingha, said the charge was filed at the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Obono-Obla was suspended as the Chairman of the Special Presidential Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property (SPIP). Akponimisingha withdrew the 10-count charge filed on July 1 by the ICPC at the Federal High Court, Abuja. The defendants are Obono-Obla (a.k.a Ofem Okoi Ofem); his Senior Assistant, Special Duties (Protocol), Aliyu Ibrahim, and the Managing Director of ABR Global Petroleum Resources Ltd, Daniel Omughele Efe. The lawyer said: “We filed this charge here, but after a review, we concluded that this court may not have the necessary jurisdiction. “We have since found an appropriate avenue, which is the High Court of the FCT, where we have now filed a similar one.” Justice Taiwo Taiwo, therefore, struck out the charge, numbered FHC/ABJ/CR/121/2020. ICPC had accused Obono-Obla, Ibrahim and Efe of conspiring in 2018 to confer an unfair advantage on Ibrahim. The prosecution said they “diverted the sum of N19,994,185.00 received by SPIP through its contractors from the Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC)”. The sum, meant to furnish SPIP offices, was allegedly “diverted to the personal account of Aliyu Ibrahim, using proxy companies, without furnishing the said SPIP offices as proposed to the NDIC”. Ibrahim was, in count three, accused of using his position “to confer unfair advantage” on himself by diverting the money into his account using proxy companies without furnishing the SPIP offices as proposed to NDIC. The alleged offence contravenes Section 26(1)(c) and punishable under Section 19 of Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Act 2000. In counts four, Obono-Obla was accused of dishonestly using as genuine, “a Mary Knoll College, Ogoja General Certificate of Education, Ordinary Level, May/June 1982 (GCE) Statement of Result for Ofem Okoi Ofem with candidate No: 09403/247 showing an O’Level credit (6) score for Literature in English”. ICPC said he used it as “part of the five O’Level credit requirement for you to study Law for the 1985/86 academic session in UNJOS (the University of Jos) when you had reason to believe that the document (GCE), the basis upon which you were admitted to study Law in UNIJOS, was forged as you never sat for the English Literature examination for May/June 1982 GCE”. Obono-Obla was, in count five, accused of making false document around November 1985, regarding the GCE certificate. The alleged offence is contrary to sections 366 and 363 and punishable under Section 364 of the Penal Code. ICPC said in count six that Obono-Obla, around July 2018 in Abuja, as SPIPC Chairman “failed to attend/honour an invitation” by ICPC for an investigation, contrary to Section 28(1)(a) and (6) and punishable under section 28(10) of the Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Act 2000.