 THE continuous issuance of adhesive stamps by the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) will put no  fewer than 15,000 workers of the Nigerian Postal Service (NIPOST) out of job, the Senior Staff Association of Statutory Corporations and Government Owned Companies (SSASCGOC), has said. The FIRS, on June 30, 2020, produced and launched its owned brand of adhesive stamp. The NIPOST workers, through the SSASCGOC, protested the printing of stamps by the FIRS, saying it is a usurpation of NIPOST’s duties. The union’s General Secretary, Dr. Ayo Olorunfemi, told reporters that many Nigerians have stopped buying adhesive stamps from NIPOST, following FIRS’ action. According to him, although SSASCGOC recognised the power conferred on FIRS to collect stamp duties, it is illegal for the service to produce stamps, which it could buy from NIPOST. He said: “We have not thrown out seeking redress in court to challenge the illegality; we have to exhaust all avenues before seeking redress in court. Some people are trying to play mischief and feeding the President with wrong information. “We will not lose less than 15,000 workers and we will not allow that to happen. But we will protect the interest of our members. “It should be noted that both NIPOST and FIRS are statutory corporations for which this union has jurisdiction to organise their workers. Therefore, our position must always be balanced according to the laws of the land. That is why we are insisting that both organisations must develop a synergy that will enhance higher productivity in the area of stamp matter. “We recognise the power conferred on FIRS to collect stamp duties, just as that of the NIPOST power to produce and issue stamps. These must be acknowledged and recognised in implementing the Finance Act. “Therefore, it is illegal for FIRS to produce stamp to denote duties when it can be procured from NIPOST. It should be noted that stamp is a product of NIPOST, as given to it by law. The Finance Act does not give any power to FIRS to produce stamp; in other words, to utilise stamp for duties, FIRS must get it from NIPOST.” 