 Youth and Sports Development Minister Sunday Dare, United Nations (UN) Resident Coordinator in Nigeria Mr. Edward Kallon and youth leaders have urged youths to keep their voices roaring even though they may not get responses to issues raised as they expected. Dare, Kallon and a panel of youth leaders spoke at a virtual consultation organised by the United Nations Association of Nigeria (UNAN) in collaboration with the Nigeria Youth SDGs and other youth civil society groups. The event, “Shaping the Nigeria we want”, held in Lagos and supported by the United Nations Information Centre (UNIC), was aimed at enabling youths to share their aspirations for the country and also have an opportunity to interact with the Resident Co-ordinator in celebration of UN at 75. The minister, who was represented by Mr. Adedayo Bamigboye, congratulated the UN for the 75th year of existence and praised effort of youth SDGs and other organisers of the day’s event. He said the dialogue is considered very important and it was an opportunity for enlightenment to the youths According to him, there was a need for youths to keep their voices active on national issues and matter affecting them.  “There is currently proliferation of youth organisations in Nigeria and there is a need for coming together with a view to polling resources together. The ministry has a register of credible youth organisations and youths need to make effort at getting more united ,” Dare said. The minister urged young Nigerians currently found in crimes and other vices to look beyond their certificates and explore other ways of utilising their talents’ Kallon, after congratulating UNAN (a member of World Federation of United Nations Associations) and other organisations for organising the day’s event as part of UN@75, said the youth’s voice counts. He reaffirmed the UN faith in fundamental human rights, in dignity and worth of human person, equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small, stablishment of conditions under which justice and respect for the obligations arising from treaties and other sources of international law can be maintained. However, a panel of youth champions including Sani Muhammad (Bridge Connect Africa Initiative); Wadi Ben-Hirki (Wadi Ben-Hirki Foundation); Saied Tafida (Follow Taxes) and Goodness Odey (Nigeria Youth SDGs), in their observations, comments and recommendations, said a limiting factor to young people most times centres on inability to get productive engagement with government agencies. 