Flowing from Africa’s slave trade past, and the inferiority complex that grew out of it, it was thought that poor leadership was an African preserve. Racist theories of cultural inferiority abounded, and it was argued that little or nothing could be done to ameliorate the complex because it had become encoded in the genes of black people. But United States president Donald Trump has in one swift blow exploded the myth of any racial comparative advantage. Bad or poor leadership is not the exclusive preserve of anyone, let alone black people. Mr Trump, as can be seen in the past few weeks in his appalling responses to both the black lives matter protests and the COVID-19 pandemic, would be a hard sell even by African standards. Ignore COVID-19 response for a moment. Instead, concentrate on the protests that broke out as a result of the extrajudicial murder of George Floyd by U.S. policemen who elevate jaded and discriminatory police tactics above the constitutional rights of citizens. Mr Trump not only failed to grasp the import of the budding crisis his country faced, his response has also been tame and conniving of police misbehaviour. Failing to appreciate that as president he was beholden to the constitution and expected to be impartial to every citizen regardless of race, gender or creed, Mr Trump could simply not transcend his pet and well-documented biases. He found himself oscillating between two extremes, between good and evil, and justice and injustice, but was unable to decide what to do because to him the lines had become blurred. Nigeria can sometimes be regarded as a perfect example of the embarrassing dilemma Mr Trump faces. In 1993, Ibrahim Babangida, who had been military head of state since 1985, failed to see the value of the improbably free and fair elections his regime had just conducted. He couldn’t believe his luck. But citing extraneous factors, among which was the fear that as head of state he could not control members of his regime who had promised to torpedo the Moshood Abiola government should it be inaugurated as winner of that year’s presidential poll, Gen Babangida simply annulled the election, and months later lost his leadership and regime, and the fame and acclaim that should have been his. The issues surrounding the 1993 presidential election were truly sublime and incredibly nuanced. Nigeria had been bifurcated by religious and ethnic politics. That election shattered the divide. It was the first time a southerner would win a national presidential election. That unparalleled win held tremendous opportunity and goodwill for any leader who would have to be hopelessly imprudent not to see and grab them. Gen Babangida let the opportunity slip from his hands — deliberately, consciously and remorselessly. Decades of ethnic clashes, at one time leading to a civil war, were by that election served a quit notice, suggesting that with the right politics and orientation, anyone could in fact win a national poll that obliterates or at least miniaturises ethnic fault lines. The fateful poll also revealed that Nigeria was such an intriguing ethnic pastiche that no ethnic group could dominate the others. That election was also the first time the country’s infamous religious divide was dealt a sucker punch. The winner of that poll, Chief Abiola, ran on a Muslim-Muslim ticket, with his running mate a Muslim like himself in a country widely believed to be polarised along ossified religious lines. That divide would have been knocked out in 1993, but Gen Babangida was too blinded by extraneous factors to see it, and too consternated by self-incriminating fears to recognise that fate and nature were gifting him and his government a glimpse into the future. The black lives matter protests, which have seen blacks and whites marching side by side to end racism and every convention that has divided America and attenuated its global and moral leadership, provided Mr Trump a glimpse into the future, if he was capable of having that glimpse. Unfortunately, the American president has been wholly unable to see that future, and unlike Gen Babangida who appeared to have a somewhat saner grasp of issues and at least a modicum of understanding, Mr Trump has proved almost completely and spectacularly empty of the philosophical and cultural foundations needed to forge through that barrier. It is not clear how many American leaders, particularly presidential hopefuls, can sense that the time is right to bring down the racial divide and bigotry that have weakened American voice and leadership in the world, but Mr Trump is obviously not listed among the number. Worse, not only is the US claim to global leadership weakened as a consequence of their obnoxious attitudes and policies towards race, their weaknesses have correspondingly and inadvertently animated the unmerited claims of other amoral powers like China and Russia to global influence and prestige. Without addressing and redressing the problem, without infusing into their body politic the strengths which their diversity implies, American global leadership may slip from their racially enfeebled hands. No one but himself knows exactly how Gen Babangida now feels about the fame that should have been his as a result of the 1993 presidential election, or what sustaining that election would have meant to Nigeria which now experiences far worse divides than it experienced in the 1990s, but there is little doubt that the opportunity may have been lost for all time. Should Mr Trump be re-elected, it is not clear that 100 years of American dominance that began after World War II would not be lost irretrievably. That dominance is now shaky, with no proof whatsoever that it could be regained considering how foolishly Mr Trump has rolled back the influence and leadership of the US in many world bodies. But to return him into office in November may finally sound the death knell to a country’s global leadership which was not always deserved but which the world had reconciled itself to, even embracing and lauding its controversial values.