A total of nine corps members on Thursday received the sum of N1, 050,000 cash and laptops from Anambra state government for distinguishing themselves during their service year. The beneficiaries, drawn from 2018 Batch ‘C’ set, were honoured with the State Governor’s award, with the first three positions receiving N200,000, N150,000 and N100,000 including a laptop each respectively, while the remaining six received the sum of N100,000 each. Speaking on behalf of Governor Willie Obiano during the presentation, the state Coordinator, Mr. Kehinde Aremu said the awards were in recognition of the immense contributions of the ex-corps members to the development of the state. He described the award as a burden and responsibility, charging the awardees to view themselves as ambassadors of both the state and the scheme. He said, “Governor Obiano is very grateful to you for your contribution to the development of the state. While others were playing, you were working. It’s just proper to recognize whoever that makes sacrifices. “We found you outstanding for not just being role models to your colleagues, but to other youths in the state. Whatever your hands find doing, keep doing it well. “As your father, I want you to know that you’re carrying a burden and a responsibility. You’re now ambassadors of the state and the NYSC. “There are certain things you want to do, you ask yourself, what will the state and NYSC say if they find me doing it? Let that always be your watchword. Aremu further described the state award as just the beginning, assuring the beneficiaries that their names had been forwarded to Abuja for recognition at the national level. “I’m sure most of you were surprised to receive our call. Expect to go to the villa soon. Having started on the part of hard work and diligence, never depart from it. “It’s our expectations that you’ll assume greater responsibility to grow and defend yourselves and the scheme wherever you find yourselves. Responding on behalf of the awardees, the first prize winner, Amune Vera appreciated the governor for the honor, as well as the NYSC management for providing the platform, praying God to reward them immensely.