COVID-19 is unraveling in Ondo State. And it is a sad story. The governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, tested positive for the disease, and he announced to the world that he was one in the series of high-profile names that tested positive. He said it happened to him although he was apparently healthy. “I am asymptomatic and not displaying any symptoms. I am currently self-isolating and supervised home management will be administered by the wonderful team at our Infectious Disease Hospital. I ask that we all stay safe and be well.” But his case is one of the most dramatic. He was seen not long before that in Abuja with lawmakers when he was submitting his form indicating interest to run for a second term on the ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC). He was with quite a number of his party faithful, political loyalists and Ondo State lawmakers. They crowded together and he, like most of them, did not wear a face mask. In the mirth of dancing and singing and hand waving, Governor Akeredolu sneezed into his two palms. No restraint after that with him or his associates. Rather, he continued with the fanfare, with one of the faithful holding the left hand he had just sneezed into. Although he claimed he was not symptomatic, his sneeze may or may not be a counter-narrative. Yet, it reflected that as a leader, he did not show example. He did not only test positive. His wife, the first lady, also tested positive, which is predictable, just as Delta State governor Ifeanyi Okowa and his wife have also tested positive. The story gets even more unsavoury. Akeredolu’s commissioner for health, Wahab Adegbenro, a frontline person in the fight against the disease in the state, had apparently taken ill from the virus. He died less than two days after Governor Akeredolu tested positive for the virus. The news came after Adegbenro’s death that four of the lawmakers in ecstasy with the governor when he was submitting his form had even taken ill and were suspected to be suffering from the disease. All four have refused to self-isolate and submit themselves to testing. They do not want to even confirm or at least ascertain whether they are being afflicted by the virus. One of the four is Olugbenga Omole, a spokesman for the governor. Another aspect of the saga is that Governor Akeredolu has said he would not hand over to his deputy, and that he would treat files from isolation. First, the four lawmakers ought to show leadership at this time. They are role models in society, and they were elected by their people. The least they can do is show transparency. Their refusal to humble themselves for testing is an act of impunity and indecency. If all who feel ill do not bow for testing, how can the society stanch the disease? Testing is a means to identify those infected for isolation. Isolation helps to preserve the community by not spreading the ailment. It is therefore sad that lawmakers should be in a dialogue that tilts towards exacerbating the disease. Again, the death of the commissioner ought to have told the commissioners that the disease is no fatal fantasy. It is an actual one. It just claimed a former governor and party helmsman, Abiola Ajimobi, of Oyo State, one of the southwest states. It had earlier claimed the life of the chief of staff to the president. A few other governors, in Oyo, Bauchi, Kaduna and Abia states have also tested positive. If the lawmakers cannot tell their people the truth, who would? This is the sort of attitude that Donald Trump is showing as president and states took a cue from him and now are fighting desperately to overcome the scourge as the spread is getting out of hand in the United States. The other issue is the governor’s refusal to hand over to the deputy, Agboola Ajayi. This is not acting with decency. First, treating files will not make anyone immune from contracting the disease. Unless he wants to keep to the files until he recovers, he should give the task over to his next line according to the constitution. If not, his decision will be selfish and egoistical. You cannot always govern in isolation. It means some people will take over some of your core responsibility. Hence a handover is not only the right thing to do, but the constitutional thing that beckons. Some other governors who contracted COVID-19 actually handed over. The governors of Kaduna, Bauchi and Abia handed over. In the pre-COVID era, governors always handed over to their deputies when they took ill. We can recall the cases of Governor Liyel Imoke and Sullivan Chime of Enugu State. It does not take away from your powers as governor. It only shows your sense of the dignity of the office and constitutionality of your stewardship. It also brings to the surface the perennial tension between governors and their deputies. Agboola has now moved to the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), but he is still the deputy governor. The constitution does not say that when a deputy moves to another party, he should be separated from his duties. If Governor Akeredolu feels strongly about Agboola’s illegitimacy, he should take it to court. Holding up to the work is contempt of the law and lacks a republican virtue. What is happening in Ondo State should be an eye-opener to all other states in the country because it reflects the constitutional, behavioural and physical complications that can arise from the pandemic. It calls for statesmanship, which Akeredolu has not shown; it calls for decency, which the Ondo State governor has also neglected. It invokes public noble sentiment, which the defiant four lawmakers have thrown aside. It also demands caution, which the governor and the lawmakers have ignored. It can spell death, which unfortunately befell the commissioner for health. Above all, we expect patriotism from all in Nigeria, especially in high and elected offices, a virtue we have not seen in the leadership of Governor Akeredolu and his associates.