 The Director-General, National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye, seems to have discovered a new passion. From administering and controlling regulated products at NAFDAC, her latest preoccupation is to see the emergence of a vibrant Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise (MSME) sector capable of creating jobs and driving Nigeria’s economic growth. Consequently, Mrs Adeyeye has since channelled her energy to pushing through practical reforms to ensure that MSMEs not only ride the turbulence of the COVID-19 pandemic, but also emerge from the crisis sufficiently stimulated and strategically positioned to help put the economy on the path of sustainable recovery. Essentially anchored on the need to leverage MSMEs as means of job creation for Nigerians, the reforms, which came in form of palliatives for MSMEs, included a reduction in registration fees, and assisted e-registration through NAFDAC Automated Product Administration and Monitoring System (NAPAMS). At a recent virtual launch of the palliatives for MSMEs, Mrs Adeyeye said it was in line with the Agency’s membership of the PEBEC. “The Agency carried out a lot of reforms of its activities to create an enabling environment for MSMEs to thrive, focusing on micro and small companies,” she said. The PEBEC is the administration’s flagship initiative to reform the business environment, attract investment and diversify the economy. It was inaugurated in July 2016 and chaired by Vice President Yemi Osibanjo, Mrs Adeyeye explained that NAFDAC, being an active member of the Presidential Enabling Environment Council (PEBEC), has continued to support the job creation agenda of the present administration in line with the provisions of Executive Order No.1. The Council’s reforms and the signing of the Executive Order No. 1 in 2017, which provided for the creation of an enabling environment for businesses, entrenched measures and strategies aimed at promoting transparency and efficiency and ultimately, earned Nigeria her rise on the ease of doing business ladder. According to Adeyeye, the reforms of NAFDAC’s activities have started yielding fruits. She said, for instance, that a Small Business Support Desk (SBSD) has been created to facilitate registration processes for micro and small business operators, while the Agency has reviewed guidelines for registration of products and uploaded them unto its website. NAFDAC has also reduced the requirements for registration of some food and cosmetics products, granted 50 per cent discount on tariffs for product registration, expedited laboratory analysis for samples, and allowed micro companies with similar products to share production facility. That is not all. The NAFDAC boss also said the Agency no longer engages consultants by companies for product registration; instead, it has instructed them to visit NAFDAC offices directly. It also now has 90 working days timeline for product registration, ensures prompt treatment of complaints/enquiries from companies, and registration of micro enterprises products at its zonal offices nationwide. Also, in furtherance to compliance with the Executive Order on the Ease of Doing Business, as well as proactive response to the challenges of COVID-19 pandemic, the Agency now offers zero tariffs for first 200 micro and small companies to register their products on the launch day. There is also an offer of 80 per cent reduction in tariffs for the registration of micro and small enterprises products for three months, just as it also gives waivers on administrative charges for late renewal of expired licenses for products of micro and small businesses.  Why the palliatives became imperative Mrs Adeyeye while urging micro and small enterprises within the MSME class of business to take advantage of these laudable incentives to massively embark on e-registration of their products, said globally, MSMEs contribute up to 45 per cent of total employment and up to 33 per cent of national income in emerging economies. To further underscore the critical role of MSMEs as heartbeats of domestic employment and growth, she said a recent review of 2017 survey of the National Policy on MSMEs revealed that there were 41.4 million MSMEs in Nigeria, with about 99 per cent of them belonging to the micro sub-sector. According to a 2017 report by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) and the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN), MSMEs in Nigeria account for over 95 per cent of all the businesses. The 41.5 million MSMEs contribute 50 percent to Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and account for 86.3 per cent of employment (59.6 million jobs). These heart-warming statistics must be why Osinbajo, at the virtual launch of the palliatives, declared that “MSMEs are the bedrock of Nigeria’s industrialisation and inclusive economic development; and the most important component of industrialisation as set out in the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan. ’’ Noting that the significance of MSMEs in the nation’s economy cannot be over-emphasised, he said it is believed that if enabling environment is provided, MSMEs could get the country out of the present predicament of unacceptable rate of unemployment, illicit financial engagements, insecurity, political and social violence. For Osinbajo, therefore, the launch of NAFDAC palliatives for MSMEs was “A thoughtful and strategic response to the devastation caused by the COVID-19 pandemic” as businesses across the world confront the disruptions caused by the coronavirus pandemic. The Vice President said the Federal Government would continue to adopt and implement practical measures to ensure that the projected growth in the MSMEs sector was not seriously affected by the development. “Of importance to the government’s response was to find ways of not just giving succour and assistance to existing MSMEs, but also ensuring that there is a practical and active fillip to new MSMEs so that the growth of this sector is not discouraged by the current economic trauma. “This is our moment and the government of Nigeria and its regulatory agencies are prepared to back MSMEs and other businesses that are prepared for the innovative and interesting times that lie ahead of us,” Osinbajo said. The outbreak of COVID-19 in Wuhan, Central China, and subsequent spread across the world, including Nigeria, caused significant disruption of business and financial activities. Since February 27, 2020, when the deadly virus found its way into Nigeria, it’s been a tale of woes for operators in all the sectors of the economy, particularly the MSME sector. Except those operating in the food, pharmaceutical and other essential services that were allowed to operate although under apprehensive conditions, the operations of MSMEs were seriously hampered by the shutdown of business activities across the country as part of containment measures to curb the spread of the  pandemic. Most MSMEs were unable to move their raw materials for production or deliver their finished products or services to customers due to movement restrictions, which resulted in heavy revenue loses. Some of them have been forced to shut down; others either reduced their workforce or slashed employees’ salaries. Other shots in the arm of MSMEs Even before NAFDAC’s intervention, the Federal Government, through the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), had created a N50 billion Targeted Credit Facility (TCF) stimulus package for households and MSMEs. The N50 billion TCF will be financed from the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Fund and will be managed by the Nigeria Incentive-Based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL) Microfinance Bank (NMFB). According to the guidelines for its implementation, the fund has its strong focus on businesses in the hospitality industry, and airline service providers. Others are businesses in health, manufacturing/value addition, trading as well as other businesses with evidence of operations affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Enterprises with bankable plans to take advantage of opportunities arising from COVID-19 are also eligible. MSMEs and businesses are to submit their applications for the loan to NMFB with clear evidence of the impact of the pandemic on their business. For others looking to take the opportunity from the pandemic, they are to provide clear evidence of the opportunity too. Required collaterals for the application include moveable asset(s) that is duly registered on the National Collateral Registry (NCR); simple deposit of title documents, in a perfect state; irrevocable domiciliation of proceeds; two acceptable guarantors and personal guarantee of the promoter of the business etc. After submission, applications are reviewed by NFMB first. Upon approval they are passed on to the CBN for final ratification. Once granted, businesses will be disbursed their loans through the NFMB. The loan amount to be disbursed will be determined based on the business’ operations, cash flow and industry/segment size of the beneficiary. However, there’s a maximum cap of N25 million for SMEs. The loan will be provided at five per cent interest rate per annum up to February 28, 2021, after which it will be charged at nine per cent per annum. Those looking to latch on the opportunities provided by the COVID-19 pandemic have one year to pay back with no option of rollover. However, others looking for long-term loans will have three years to pay back with a one year moratorium. The NFMB said it has received over 80, 000 applications and will begin disbursement of the first batch immediately. The scheme will be available until December 31, 2024. Apart from the N50 billion TCF that has raised the hopes of revitalising MSMEs, other responses aimed at leveraging that sector to reflate the economy post COVID-19 included the extension of one year moratorium on principal repayments, reduction of interest rate on all CBN intervention facilities from nine to five per cent etc. Also, recall that before the COVID-19 pandemic prompted the latest palliatives and reforms targeted at MSMEs, the CBN had launched the N220 billion MSME Development Fund aimed at addressing the sub-sector’s huge financing gap. According to the World Bank, 70 per cent of MSMEs in emerging markets lack access to credit. Although the gap varies between regions, it is said to be particularly wide in Africa and Asia. But, in Nigeria, as much as 90 per cent of private enterprises and MSMEs have limited or no access to credit. The objectives of the Fund were to channel low-interest funds to the MSME sub-sector, enhance their access to financial services, increase productivity and output of micro-enterprises, increase employment and create wealth, as well as engender inclusive growth. Eligible activities to be financed under the Fund include agricultural value chain, services, cottage industries, artisans, trade and commerce and any income generating business as may be prescribed by the CBN from time to time. Interestingly, the administration, as part of its effort to support MSMEs and give more impetus to its ongoing diversification campaign, has also followed up by launching a series of funding and capacity development initiatives designed to boost MSMEs. These include the takeoff of the Development Bank of Nigeria (DBN) to provide medium and long-term loans to MSMEs; inauguration of a 22-member Council for the country’s MSMEs, with Osinbajo as Chairman; setting up the MSME Clinic. The MSME Clinic brings relevant government agencies and their managements together with small businesses operating in various cities across the country to enable the agencies provide direct support to these businesses. The interactions allow the agencies better understand the issues facing small businesses and provide a platform for speedy resolution. The MSME Clinic was structured to focus on finding a one-stop-shop, which addresses different challenges confronting operators in the sub-sector. And the move was to bridge the information gap between the authorities and MSMEs with the aim of encouraging small businesses to be more efficient and capable of competing at the global level. One of the latest innovations from the National MSMEs Clinics was the MSMEs Shared Facility Scheme, to provide necessary infrastructure and support facilities in production clusters across the country for MSMEs. According to the Special Assistant to the President on MSME in the Vice President’s office, Tola Johnson, the MSMEs shared facility scheme was designed to allow MSMEs jointly share and have access to facilities they hitherto could access individually.  New dawn for MSMEs On the strength the interventions, particularly the financial palliatives for MSMEs, stakeholders in the MSME sub-sector are optimistic that a turnaround in the fortunes of operators is in the offing. This is so considering the fact that access to credit has been a major hurdle for MSMEs in the country. For instance, according to the MD/CEO of CRC Credit Bureau Limited, one of the three licensed private credit bureaux, Mr. ‘Tunde Popoola, as much as 90 per cent of private enterprises and MSMEs in Nigeria have limited or no access to credit, a development, which he said, has constrained MSMEs’ capacity to play their role as economic growth drivers. This is why Popoola has long been pushing for banks to change their lending model in favour of MSMEs. He said more than 80 per cent of loans in Nigeria were concentrated in high networth individuals, big commercial entities and specific sectors, particularly the oil and gas, adding that this was why the rate of bad loans or non-performing loans was more in the oil and gas sector. He maintained that there was the need for banks to target the estimated 41.5 million MSMEs in the country, noting that retail loans remained a viable area for banks to play. Popoola said if MSMEs were empowered with unhindered access to credit, they would be in a better position to spur more productive activities and ultimately, create jobs, reduce poverty and engender sustainable economic growth. Apart from changing the banks’ lending model to favour MSMEs, experts have also canvassed the need for MSMEs to embrace the use of technology by deploying applications to manage their finances, deliveries and orders. Perhaps, in preparation to be on the driving seat of Nigeria’s economic recovery post-COVID-19, many MSMEs are said to be already paying greater attention to collaboration and also re-thinking their business models to accommodate emerging opportunities.