 One of the major highlights of every edition of the Big Brother Naija reality TV show is the drama. The drama in the BBNaija House varies from little or inconsequential reasons to emotional reasons and most times, the need for survival. And for the BBNaija Lockdown edition, the drama began just a few days in the House – even though the Housemates claim to be showing so much love to one another. Here’s a quick recap of the dramas in the house so far:  On their sixth day in the House, a drama ensued between Lucy and Kaisha following a used and abandoned sanitary pad found in the bathroom. Lucy picked a fight with Kaisha over the act and while everyone tried to make her see reasons why she shouldn’t have made the issue public, Lucy was ready to shout to whoever cared to listen that she’s the last person other Housemates would want to pick a fight with. Spoiled for a fight, Kaisha – who many saw as the victim – threw caution into the air to drag Lucy hurling unpalatable words at Lucy.  “Don’t try me o, you don’t know me, old cargo,” Kaisha shouted back. Viewers started noticing the tension between Lucy and Kaisha on their second day in the House when Lucy alleged that Kaisha and Laycon were always moody and keeping away from others. She stressed Kaisha was always trying to keep her space. Though Dorothy rose to Kaisha’s defense, Lucy sounded unconvinced. Another drama that had involved Lucy again is with Lilo. The first fight of the BBNaija Lockdown edition was brought to viewers by Lucy and Lilo during a get-to-know-me- session. Lilo was sharing her life story when she overheard Lucy say “abeg, this thing should be over.” An angry Lilo couldn’t hold her anger and confronted Lucy, who claimed she wasn’t referring to Lilo. Lilo and Lucy exchanged bitter words with each drawing the line. Lucy, whose loud voice doesn’t help in most of the dramas she has gotten herself into, finds it hard minding her business. On the fifth day in the House, Ka3na was caught in a shouting match with the current Deputy Head of House, Wathoni. The two got into a heated argument over a Trivia question, which saw the Black team winning. “Am I your mate?” She kept asking Wathoni and went on to say, “I’m not the one to be played with, I’ll finish you.” The meek Wathoni couldn’t hold back her emotions, crying for the better part of the day. She also refused to eat the delicious noodles meal prepared by Ka3na.