 There are many competent general requirement companies in Nigeria, but Delon Jobs is the #1 IT recruitment company in Nigeria because of their specialized IT skills and experience, as well as the fact that they are focused on the mainstream local market which includes small and medium enterprises. Specialized IT recruitment companies are common in the United States and Europe, but IT recruitment and outsourcing in Nigeria is still an emerging industry. Though Delon Jobs is an indigenous company that focuses primarily on the Nigerian market, they have an office in the Greater Boston area in the United States, and a software development recruitment agency in the UAE. Their parent company has in the last thirteen years provided diverse technology products and services to Deloitte, UBA, MTN, Access Bank, Fidelity Bank, FCMB, Eco Bank, CWG, Makon Engineering, Latter Rain Assembly, Winners Chapel, RCCG, Christ Embassy, Ogun State Television, as well as companies in UAE, Kenya and Mozambique. They created the number one google ranked classifieds in Nigeria and the top job portal in Nigeria with the most diverse jobs and the highest paying IT jobs in Nigeria. So they already have enormous and diverse database of IT related CVs and job seekers from which they can quickly explore for clients. Their services include hiring IT staff, engineering staff recruitment, staff outsourcing, expatriate hires, and top tier offshore developer hiring. Delon Jobs also regularly posts their Nigerian jobs on Linkedin. Delon Jobs organizes free weekly career development live webinar on youtube and facebook for students, Pre-NYSC, NYSC and recent graduates about finding jobs in Nigeria and starting careers. This is geared towards helping young Nigerians better prepare for the employment market and allows them to participate through live question and answer sessions. The company also provides free business development learning opportunities to small business owners in Nigeria by regularly publishing educative articles and interviews, as well as important business news on their Nigeria business blog. I did not list Andela as number 1 because they are actually a foreign company operating in Nigeria, and they are mostly focused on the United States market for customers. According to Wikipedia, “Andela is an American company with operational campuses in Africa, including Nigeria, Ghana and Kenya that identifies and develops software developers. The company launched operations in Nigeria in 2014, to help global companies overcome the severe shortage of skilled software developers and has offices in Nigeria, Kenya, Rwanda, Uganda, and the United States.” Though software development is an important part of IT today, Andela can be better described as a software development recruitment and outsourcing company, rather than an IT recruitment company. Toptal is a global remote company that provides a freelancing platform which connects businesses with software engineers, designers, and business consultants. Though it is one of the most popular IT recruitment companies around the world, it is not a typical IT recruitment firm that operates locally in countries or regions to meet specific local demands. For Nigerian companies seeking good remote talents from across the world, the is the best platform to find top IT talents. And for highly skilling Nigerian IT professionals looking for top tier IT in the United States and Europe, this is the number one platform for them. Nigerian job seekers may not find the highest paying IT jobs in Nigeria on this site, but they will find some high paying foreign jobs there. Toptal claims to expertly match Fortune 500 companies to high-quality developers, and they hire developers from South America, Asia, Europe, the Caribbean, the United States, and other countries. Most of the companies that hire through them are based in the United States and Europe, so this platform will greatly benefit Nigerian IT specialists seeking remote foreign jobs as well as Nigerian companies seeking IT specialists from different parts of the world where IT labour is cheap. People seeking online jobs in Nigeria and other countries will love this site. I have listed Linkedin as number three because many Nigerian companies just simply use linkedin to look for IT staff, since most IT specialists in Nigeria have detailed linkedin profile. The challenge with this style is that the company will either have to hire full-time technical recruiters (which will not be cost-effective for them because technical recruiters earn a lot) to comb linkedin for qualified people or outsource to a general recruiting company to help them comb linkedin on their behalf. This is usually much more costly than outsourcing the task to a specialized IT recruiting firm that can handle the task more efficiently, quicker, and cheaper. Linkedin however remains an excellent platform for job seekers and recruiters, and they continue to earn a lot of money by selling access to information about its members to recruiters and sales professionals. Since December 2016, Linkedin has been a wholly owned subsidiary of Microsoft, and as at May 2020, the company had over 690 million registered members in 150 countries. Some top job sites in Nigeria also promote their Nigerian jobs on linkedin to give opportunity in order to share the opportunities with more people. Linkedin also helps connect Nigerian job seekers to, sales and marketing jobs in Nigeria, accounting jobs in Nigeria, teaching jobs, admin jobs in Nigeria, as well as business development jobs in Nigeria. Though they are a foreign company, I have listed them as third because they are generally very strong in IT recruitment. They post a few Nigeria jobs from time to time, but they clearly are not a local player. Nigerian companies seeking IT recruitments will always get far better services from local companies than foreign companies. Randstad is a Dutch multinational human resource consulting company with its headquarters in Diemen, Netherlands. It was founded in the Netherlands in 1960 by Frits Goldschmeding and operates in around 39 countries. Randstad is largely regarded as a global leader in the HR services industry. Randstad specializes in HR services for temporary and permanent jobs, and they usually have separate units, including dedicated IT recruitment teams that work almost independently. A separate division of Randstad focuses on hiring supervisors, managers, and professionals. So international job seekers may even find jobs in Malawi or jobs in Europe from their websites. They are not a specialized IT recruiting company, but they occasionally handle some IT recruitment for large businesses in Nigeria. They are very popular in Nigeria and are best known for audit and business advisory services. KPMG International Cooperative is a multinational professional services network, and one of the Big Four accounting organizations. Seated in Amstelveen, the Netherlands, KPMG is a network of firms in 147 countries, with over 219,000 employees and has three lines of services: financial audit, tax, and advisory. Like Toptal, upwork is a global freelancing platform where businesses connect to find different types service providers. They are however different from toptal because they are not specialized in IT recruitment. They have many more jobs posted on their platform than toptal and all their competitors. According to wikipedia, upwork has twelve million registered freelancers, five million registered clients, and three million jobs posted annually on their platform. They largely regarded as the largest freelancer marketplace in the world. I have put them on this list because they remain a good source of IT specialists to companies in Nigeria. Nigerian IT specialists can find remote jobs from Europe or the United States from the platform, and Nigerian companies seeking to hire remote IT specialists from Asia can also find candidates through upwork. They are not a specialized IT recruiting company in Nigeria, but they handle some IT recruitment for large businesses in Nigeria. However, they still do a lot of general and IT recruitment in the United States and other countries. Accenture actually used to do a lot of recruitment in Nigeria many years ago, but their activities in that sector has reduced in recent years. Their operation is quite similar to upwork, except that they appeal a lot more to Nigerians than upwork. Students and recent graduates in Nigeria can learn a lot about how to best utilize this platform and other ways to get jobs by tuning in weekly live weminar that explains finding jobs in Nigeria. Fiverr is getting really popular in Nigeria such that Nigerian customers are even finding Nigerian service providers on the platform. But since their services are not free, Nigerian small businesses providing services can enjoy online fee ads for services in Nigeria through several local classified ads websites. Small business owners can also learn how to grow their businesses online in Nigeria through fiverr and other similar platforms by reading good business blogs in Nigeria. They are part of a very huge conglomerate which is one of the biggest companies across the world. They have a specialized IT recruitment subsidiary that does a lot of work in the United States and Canada. I have seen a few Nigerian jobs posted on their site in recent times, and this suggests that they are doing some IT recruitment work in the country. TCS is also big in IT outsourcing and currently work with many large businesses in North America. 