 Leading fertiliser and agro-allied company in Africa, Notore Chemical Industries Plc, has posted a six per cent revenue growth, showing gross revenue of  N17.4 billion and operating income of N3.8 billion for the nine months ended June 30 this year, according to its unaudited Q3 2020 Financial Results. The result noted that there has been good progress with on-going Turn Around Maintenance (TAM) programme on the existing plant, adding that significant increases in production outputs and revenues are projected after TAM is completed at the end of December this year as expected. Giving further breakdown of its results, it said: “The gross revenue stands at N17.42 billion, compared to  N16.49 billion in Q3 2019 (six per cent YoY growth), representing a modest increase in production output and sales, while operating income is  N3.79 billion, compared to N3.34 billion in Q3 2019 (an increase by 13per cent YoY) driven largely by increases in other income.” It noted that its debt service cost stood at N11.89 billion, compared to N10.45 billion in Q3 2019 (14per cent YoY growth), due to additional term borrowing to finance the TAM programme and the impact of Naira devaluation on foreign currency denominated loans. It said: “Notore’s gradual revenue growth is attributable to some improvements in plant reliability derived from the on-going TAM programme, which has begun to impact positively on plant operations, resulting in some modest increases in production volumes and production on-stream days during the period. “Operating expenses increased by 22per cent to  N16.24 billion during the period from N13.23 billion for the corresponding period of Q3 2019 due mainly to a combination of increases in production activities, Plant repair and maintenance expenses exacerbated by Naira devaluation.” On the impact of the coronavirus on its operations, it said it has continued to weather the storm during the period and recorded impressive sales during its 2020 financial year, saying: “For the period under review, Notore sold all the urea that it produced in both domestic and international fertiliser markets.” Its Group Managing Director, Mr. Onajite P. Okoloko, said having installed and commissioned a brand new 2,000 metric tons per day NPK Blending Plant with capacity to produce various crop specialty blends of NPK fertiliser, the company is consolidating customer loyalty by expanding its product offerings. “The NPK Plant has now commenced commercial production and sale of bulk dry blended NPK fertiliser varieties. Additionally, the company entered into partnership with the NAIC-NPK Limited during the period for the blending, packaging, sale and distribution of NPK fertiliser for the year 2020 farming season under the Presidential Fertiliser Initiative (PFI),” he said.