Startups and tech hubs have been hurt by COVID-19. Though the Federal Government is responding with reliefs, the environment is challenging for business owners. A webinar, hosted by Innovation Support Network Hubs (ISN) South Regional Gathering, has proffered the way forward, DANIEL ESSIET reports. With the effect of COVID-19 pandemic on the economy,  businesses have a major task: survival. The Director, TechQuest STEM Academy, Dr. Itoro Emembolu, said the startup ecosystem requires new solutions. She ofered insights on how business incubation managers could adapt to the new landscape and keep their projects going. She was one of the panelists at a webinar hosted by Innovation Support Network Hubs (ISN) South Regional Gathering with the theme: “Positioning your hub for post-pandemic opportunities.” Other speakers were Managing Partner, GrandCentral, Chinenye Mba-Uzoukwu, founder, Jiggle.ng, David Inyang-Etoha, Blessing Achu of 360 Creative Innovation Hub, Nnamdi Anika of Genesys Tech Hub and iBayelsa Hub’s Abiye Nyanabo. She noted that the pandemic has impacted on businesses, but urged startups to work on alternative ways to stay afloat. Dr. Itoro said businesses should deploy management tools, artificial intelligence (AI) and customer relationship management (CRM) software to create their clients’ base. She said hub owners should  analyse how service processes are flowing as well as where the bottlenecks and gaps are. According to her, the future requires digital engagement with customers and technology and business architecture working together. Mba-Uzoukwu emphasised the need for startups to be more pivoting to enable them adapt to the challenges which the pandemic has brought to the economy. According to him, getting startups up and running again is essential. To thrive in a post-pandemic world, he said startups need to be resilient, and better connected with fast-growing technology. He said the economy would be sustained by high growth, tech and innovation firms. He called on tech hubs to develop strategies to generate new revenue, survive and thrive in the new economy. Inyang-Etoha said the fintech startup provides an easier way for Nigerians to make instant payments for bills, items and meals on their smartphone. Like most digital payment firms hoping to tap into the mobile money market, Jiggle.ng has developed an app for financial products. For him, the industry has been a source of optimism. He urged hubs to focus on traditional platforms their customers are used to rather than new technologies which they are not used to. Although new technologies help firms deliver fast service and a customer-centric experience, Inyang-Etoha noted that reaching people through channels they are acquainted with was equally important. The Director, ISN Hubs, Chukwuemeka Fred Agbata Jnr, said it was critical for the startup community to galvanise to create common good to support its ecosystem after the COVID-19 pandemic. He noted that with the COVID-19 pandemic, everything must be done to protect and leverage tech startups to drive innovation, growth and job creation. The founder, Start Innovation Hub, Hanson Johnson, said the forum provided observations about how they were navigating the new reality during the pandemic and beyond. According to him, hubs are inspired by the creativity and resilience of entrepreneurs. The National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) Director-General, Mallam Kashifu Inuwa Abdullahi, reiterated the readiness of the Federal Government to provide the enabling environment for startups to enable them to survive post-COVID-19 pandemic. Abdullahi, represented by the Director, Information Technology Infrastructure Solutions, Dr. Usman Gambo Abdullahi, said tech startups and scaleups were key sectors of the economy. For this reason, he said the agency was evolving programmes and services to help hubs address their challenges, and future proof their business. The Director, Partnerships, ISN, Mrs. Fayo Williams, said the association was ready to partner hubs to develop measures to help them grow and thrive in the new reality.