The environment is cool and calm. The birds are equally resting in the nests and they must be in dreamland. Somehow, that peaceful ambience changes suddenly, a strong wind blows and the sweet sleep of two birds is disturbed, they were flung out in the open screaming for help. Like this bird, a lovebird has been ‘evicted’ from the emotional nest. So how did she get to this point you wonder? In tears she takes yours truly down memory lane to tell her story. “I have been in a relationship with Juwon for about three years and we have had a wonderful time together. While it lasted he was so caring and I did not have any cause to doubt the fact that he loved me. However my friend, Adetoun has been complaining about seeing my man with different women and warned me to be careful”. Last week, she came around again and the story, she told me really broke my heart. “I saw your man holding hands with his secretary at the beach last week. If that is the man you call your heartbeat, then it is better not to have a heart at all”. That can’t be true. At least she could handle all the other tales but knowing that Juwon secretary was her younger sister’s friend made the news really unpalatable. So our dear friend decided to take the bull by the horn. “I decided to go to his office to confront him about the things that I had been hearing all this while. However when I got there, there was no need to ask any questions, they were both locked in a deep embrace. Even when they finally noticed that I was in the room with them, Juwon ignored me and continued to cuddle the girl”. Confession time? Not really. “Thank God you saw things yourself. There is no point pretending anymore. This is the way I feel about that girl, I have finally realized that she is the one that I love and I just cannot hide my feelings anymore. I am sorry if I have hurt you with the shocking reality and I think it is best to say goodbye now”. Dazzed, the poor babe walked back home in tears. Why did she listen to her friend, at least what you do not know does not hurt. Maybe things would have been different if she didn’t find out that they were cheating on her. Perhaps, it was better not to have shifted this emotional doomsday. What would be, would definitely be. The truth of the matter was that she loved the guy badly. It was an unfinished business and she just wondered if he would ever change his mind and come back into her arms. Their love nest had been so sweet, always cuddling themselves in and out of the nest. In his arms, sleep had always been sweet and memorable. Life is lonely in bed these days and filled with the bitter memory of a sad ending to what she hoped for. You can imagine how our friend is feeling, the love nest can be exciting when you are laid back in the arms of the one you love. Warmth, comfort, rest and sleep. Sweet sleep would definitely make your sleep sound. When you sleep happily, then you are going to wake up filled with joy and sweet dreams. All the things you imagine during the day, the activities that you surround yourself with are the things that you are likely to see in your dreams. Conversely, when things are rough and bitter, then you are going to be haunted and wake up having nightmares. It says a lot about your state of mind, emotional disconnect and interconnectivity. The love nest is the most valuable asset in it is worse when you do not sleep when you should. This way you are stealing from nature and you certainly would not be at your best. For birds and lovebirds an eviction is something to dread. Interestingly, this is the season of emotional eviction. It cuts away your dreams; it startles you from slumber land and brings you back to the stark reality of your situation. An eviction notice? Not all the time. Sometimes, the process can be slow; giving you enough time to fathom what to do or what steps can be taken to retain this comfort zone. When a tenant (lovebird) is served with an eviction notice, they still have rights and options. The crux of the matter here is that, if you persevere and sustain the emotional tempo and may just get back into the Love nest against all odds. Forceful eviction is worse. That means that the other party is totally fed up with your actions or inactions. But again, why would any heart eject or evict someone that they claim to really love or care about. The truth of the matter here is that, if you play by the rules, the owner of the emotional manor is likely to send you packing, when you fail to pay your rent, have become a nuisance or you have simply overstayed your welcome. As scary as the notice is, it is the eviction itself that tells you that you have finally come to the end of the road.