 Even while awaiting the forensic audit, the gory details of the criminal waste in the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), can be likened to an incestuous rape. Of course, the Niger Delta region since the discovery of hydrocarbons in Oloibiri has become a victim for continuous gang-rape by multinational oil companies and their collaborating local administrators, which have ruled Nigeria. As tragic as the abuses of the Niger Delta region by outsiders may be, it is benumbing that those allegedly involved in the NDDC heist are persons from the Niger Delta. In a region were poverty is cavorting on the streets, I find it difficult to understand how persons from the region who are in positions of authority can, instead of working assiduously to develop the region, agree to convert a special purpose vehicle, created to accelerate development in the region, into an ensemble for corruption. Indeed, like in Ayi Kwei Armah’s: The Beautyful Ones Are Not Yet Born, the NDDC, despite the laudable objectives, for its creation, has so far, turned out a monumental disaster. In Armah’s novel, the great expectations an independent Ghana portended never materialised. Such is the tragedy of the Nigerian state, of which the NDDC is a microcosm. Unfortunately, we appear to live in a nation, where those who refuse to accept bribe, as a normal way of life, like the protagonist in Armah’s novel: The Man, may be forced by the actions and inactions of government, to rue their determination to reject graft. Between the Minister for Niger Delta, Senator Godswill Akpabio, and the former acting Managing Director of the Interim Management Committee (IMC) of the NDDC, Dr. Joy Nunieh, one of them is a liar. The liar, in connivance with some other top officials of the NDDC, like their predecessors in crime, has engaged in an orgy of debauchery, against the interests of the region. This paper last Saturday, came with a screaming headline: “I was pressured to spend N10b as Christmas ‘Gifts’ says Nunieh”. At a hearing, before the House of Representatives, Nunieh went ahead to list a catalogue of impetuous heist in the NDDC, allegedly under the present Interim Management Committee foisted by Akpabio. Of course, Akpabio, has likened Nunieh, to the biblical woman with many husbands, with the challenge of identity at the resurrection; while Nunieh, has in turn, alleged that she slapped Senator Akpabio, when he tried to come on her, in a licentious manner. But while the claim of sexual harassment of Nunieh is bad, the imagery of NDDC is that of a woman, gang-raped, but without the ability of dealing the assailants, at least, a dirty slap, like Nunieh allegedly did to Akpabio. With the Niger Delta region unable to stand up to the rapists, many thought the much advertised forensic audit of NDDC ordered by President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration, would salvage what was left of the agency’s dignity. But alas, Nunieh, claims that no forensic audit is going on, because, the procedural requirements have not been put in place. Those who she claimed allegedly received N13.6 million, for consultancy on the construction of ‘infant Jesus’ must be soullessly fearless. If the allegation is true, the culprits did not worry that the real Infant Jesus may specifically ask them to account for such a perfidious claim. Such sinners. And the Bible said, the soul that sinned shall die. Of course, not the death, all humans shall face, but eternal damnation in hell. Who will save the Niger Delta? This time, I am talking of saving them here on earth, since the hereafter, is of no consequence to her traducers. While the Buhari presidency had shown a heightened interest in the fight against corruption, the regime’s recent ‘vote of no confidence’, on Ibrahim Magu, the arrow head of EFCC, set up specifically to fight corrupt practices, means that the regime is not winning the war. A look at the NDDC (Establishment etc.) Act 2000 shows that former President Olusegun Obasanjo had lofty intention in creating the commission. It was conceived to be populated by the representatives, of the nine-member oil producing states, and in particular, persons from the oil bearing areas of the states. Mention was even made that the position of the chairman will be rotational, in other to make the commission inclusive. In Part II of the Act, the functions and powers of the commission were provided, and they are lofty. The commission is entrusted with the power to: formulate policies and guidelines for the development of the Niger- Delta, area;  conceive, plan and implement, in accordance with set rules and regulations, projects and programmes for the sustainable development of the Niger-Delta area in the field of transportation including roads, jetties and waterways, health, education, employment, industrialization, agriculture and fisheries, housing and urban development, water supply, electricity and telecommunications; The mandate also included to: identify factors inhibiting the development of the Niger-Delta area and assist the member states in the formulation and implementation of policies to ensure sound and efficient management of the resources of the Niger-Delta area. The bumbling commission is also expected to: assess and report on any project being funded or carried out in the Niger-Delta area by oil and gas producing companies and any other company including non-governmental organisations and ensure that funds released for such projects are properly utilised. One of the most idealistic endeavours of the commission is the mandate to: tackle ecological and environmental problems that arise from the exploration of oil mineral in the Niger-Delta area and advise the federal government and the member states on the prevention and control of oil spillages, gas flaring and environmental pollution. The funding model was statutory, and heavy. From the federal government:  the equivalent of 15 per cent of the total monthly statutory allocations due to member states of the commission from the Federation Account; and from the oil and gas companies, three per cent of the total annual budget of any oil producing company operating, onshore and offshore in the Niger-Delta area, including gas processing companies; while from the ecological fund, 50 percent of monies due to member states of the commission from the Ecological Fund. With these provisions, it was envisaged that the commission will help cover the shame of the Nigerian nation, which turned the principles of true federalism on its head just to steal the resources of the Niger Delta region. But instead of offering wrapper to the naked region, NDDC officials, are allegedly into an incestuous orgy, with the naked Niger Delta. If the government of President Buhari cannot make the rapists pay, perhaps, the real Infant Jesus may strike. 