 GOVERNORSHIP aspirants on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Ondo State have rejected the delegates list to be used for the July 22 shadow poll. They insisted that 101 fake names were injected into the list by the Kinsley Chinda Committee with the connivance of Deputy Governor Agboola Ajayi. Ajayi, who defected to the PDP from the APC and has refused to resign from the Rotimi Akeredolu administration, in one of the eight people aspiring for the ticket. All the other seven aspirants tabled the complaint on list doctoring before the Hassan Dankwambo Appeal Committee which visited the state on Monday. Members of the Ondo Elders Council of the PDP have also warned against conducting the primary based on the doctored list. The seven aspirants who kicked against the list were Ayorinde Bode, Ebiseni Sola, Eyitayo Jegede, Kunlere Boluwaji, Okunomo Banji Ben, Eddy Olafeso and Gooday Erewa. A member of the PDP National Working Committee (NWC) told journalists in Akure that the report of Dankwanbo would determine if those indicted would be sanctioned. According to him, “The NWC of the party is very serious about ensuring that the PDP takes over Ondo State from the ruling APC and would do anything to ensure that the unity and stability of the party is kept safe especially as the governorship election draws nearer. “All eyes are now on Agboola Ajayi. The other aspirants have called for his disqualification from the election. But the NWC is weighing its options. They are looking for a way of pacifying these other aspirants. Some of them have stayed in the party since 2016 till date, Ajayi just joined us back not too long “The issue on ground is whether the deputy governor will not cause disaffection in the party and kill the confidence the people of the state and members of the PDP have in the party. Senator Nicholas Tofowomo representing Ondo South has said any governorship aspirant attempting to steal the mandate of the people by substituting the names of legitimate delegates of the party with illegitimate names should be suspended from the party without any delay. South West Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Mr..Ayo Fadaka, said the act of replacing delegates names has never happened in the PDP before now. Fadaka said leaders of the party in the state are united to ensure that the doctored delegate list is corrected and the original names returned. But the Deputy Governor who spoke through his Media Adviser Allen Sowore said it was understandable that his political adversaries both within the PDP and APC have intensified fruitless efforts through sponsored media attacks to smear his reputation since he moved from the ruling APC to the PDP. He stated that since he became the rave of the moment, it was expected that the Akeredolu’s government and sponsored PDP aspirants would stop at nothing to blackmail him for relevance and political gains. He said Ajayi  is not a member of the NWC of the PDP and could not have influenced the ‘doctored’ list if it existed at all. He said: “Some PDP aspirants, who are being sponsored by the Ondo State Government to obtain forms just to undermine the capacity of the opposition party in its bid to take over the reins of government from the wobbling and floundering Akeredolu, have suddenly realized that it’s not going to be business as usual. The party has constituted Local Government Congress Electoral Committee for the Ondo State governorship primaries. National Organising Secretary Col. Austin Akobundu (rtd) said in a statement in Abuja that the committee would be chaired by former Senate Deputy President Ike Ekweremadu. He added that the National Working Committee (NWC) also approved the appointment of Dr. Bolanle Ogundiran, Alhaji  Akhor Idoko and Sen. Obinna Ogba as members of the committee, while Alhaji Aminu Yakudima will serve as the secretary. “The committee is mandated to elect one national delegate and one representative from Persons Living with Disabilities in each of the 18 local governments for the governorship election,” he said.