The Federal Government on Wednesday released the timetable for all national examinations for pupils in exit classes, beginning from 17 August to 18 November, 2020. The government said the Senior Secondary School Certificate Examinations (SSCE), organised by the National Examination Council (NECO) for SS3 pupils, will begin on October 5 and end on November 18, 2020. It also said the National Business and Technical Examination Board (NABTEB) examinations will start on September 21 and end on October 15, 2020. The National Board for Arabic and Islamic Studies, (NBAIS) examination will commence on September 23 and end on October 17, 2020, the government added. The government directed all examination bodies in the country, including the West African Examinations Council to release details of their examination timetables in the next seven days. The 2020 West African Senior School Certificate Examination will start on August 17. According to the timetable, registration for the NECO (SSCE), which is ongoing, will end on September 10, 2020, with no option of extension. Minister of State for Education, Emeka Nwajuiba, announced the dates after series of meetings with chief executives of examination bodies in the country. In attendance at yesterday’s meeting were: the Permanent Secretary in the Federal Ministry of Education, Sonny Echono; Registrar of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), Prof.  Is-haq Oloyede; and Registrar of the National Examinations Council (NECO), Prof. Godswill Obioma. Others are: the Registrar of National Business and Technical Examination Board (NABTEB), Prof. Ifeoma Isiugo-Abanihe; National Board for Arabic and Islamic Studies (NBAIS), Dr. Raji and the Acting Registrar of the West African Examinations Council (WAEC), Dr. J. O. Oke. In a statement by the Director of Press and Public Relations in the Federal Ministry of Education, Ben Goong, the ministry said the National Common Entrance Examination (NCEE) into Unity Colleges will hold on October 17, 2020. The ministry also said the Basic Education Certificate Examinations (BECE) for JSS 3 pupils, also conducted by NECO, will start on August 24 and end on September 7, 2020. The statement said it is compulsory for pupils who will sit to for the national common entrance examination to wear face masks on the examination dates and carry alcohol-based sanitisers. Also, Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun yesterday said SS3 pupils will resume on August 4 in private and public schools. He said measures were being put in place to make the residents observe protocols to prevent the spread of COVID-19 pandemic in schools. Lagos State Ministry of Education has also approved boarding schools to receive SS3 pupils as from next Monday. In a statement announcing the resumption of schools for SS3 and Technical College 3 students, Education Commissioner Mrs. Folasade Adefisayo said day and boarding students would be expected back in school on August 3 for revision, ahead of the West African School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) starting on August 17.