A transport fare payment App, Agbero App, has been unveiled in Lagos, as an answer to the challenges of arbitrary fare increments by commercial bus operators. The city-wide fare payments service App developed by Ruiti Agbero Limited, is available for download from the Google Playstore. The Managing Director/CEO of Ruiti Agbero Limited, Mr Olusesan Ogunmilade, who disclosed this to The Nation on Wednesday, said the Agbero App is a positive response to the yearnings of riders to have an affordable transport fare system. Ogunmilade said the firm has put in place a structure of reduced fare, which would lead to increase in ridership and profitability for operators. The Agbero App, he further disclosed, will attract fresh capital inflow as more private sector -led operators would be attracted by guaranteed return on investment. Explaining how the App works, Ogunmilade said it offers all operators a fare collection from passengers on a platter by simply downloading the App and registering as an operator. He said the App is also suitable for use of government- licenced rapid transit franchised operators or the state’s bus assets limited, as it is designed to complement their existing ticketing arrangements. “The Agbero pays them as the riders use their services and the commuter pays once. The plan is simple; riders pay with their phone and receive a ticket, which enables them to ride on a One – Day Travel, round the city. “To travel for a whole day, the rider will buy a ticket with their mobile phone and ride on the boats/ferries/buses operators partnering with the Agbero App,” Ogunmilade said. He described the Agbero App as a transparent cost recovery mechanism that may be deployed to rolling stocks financing as it provides a platform for institutional fund providers to partner with the ticketing solution for the public transport in the country. The mobile ticket solutions ensure limitless ticketing capacity while the rider generates their own ticket directly from their phones and reduces cost of operations for operators, and ensures lower fares for riders for riders/commuters/passengers. Ogunmilade added that the App is most suited to achieve the COVID-19 protocols of social distancing, non-touching of common surfaces, and all-round cashless transactions. According to him, the App would roll out in July.