  YEAR      EVENT   HOST     MEDAL 1978       NUGA   UNIVERSITY OF LAGOS                                  SILVER 1980       NUGA   UNIVERSITY OF BENIN                                   SILVER 1981       WAUG  UNIVERSITY OF COTE D’IVOIRE                  GOLD 1982       NUGA   AHMADU BELLO UNIVERSITY                    BRONZE 1984       NUGA   OBAFEMI AWOLOWO UNIVERSITY           GOLD 1986       NUGA   UNIVERSITY OF IBADAN                              GOLD 1988       NUGA   UNIVERSITY OF PORT HARCOURT             SILVER 1990       NUGA   UNIVERSITY OF CALABAR                             BRONZE 1992       NUGA   UNIVERSITY OF ILORIN                                  BRONZE   PROFESSOR Ade Kukoyi’s name is synonymous with academics as one of the pioneer teachers of French in Nigeria but beyond his academic achievements, Kukoyi was an outstanding cricketer. He represented Nigeria as well as guided UNILAG to several titles at the Nigerian University Games (NUGA) and West Africa University Games (WAUG) in the 1970s and 1980s as coach cum team manager. Before joining UNILAG, he had a short stint as a French lecturer at the Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna from 1965-1966 and he retired as a Professor of Romantic and Comparative Literature at the University of Lagos (UNILAG) Faculty of Arts where he served from 1966 till 2005. But Kukoyi’s passion for the gentleman’s game of cricket helped him to uphold its basic tenets of discipline, respect and team play. In his active days, he donned the colours of one of the foremost cricket clubs in Lagos and Nigeria- Dyaks Cricket Club – and after he retired from competitive cricket, he developed an interest in coaching and was able to manage successive UNILAG teams to vie for honours both at the national and sub-continental levels until his retirement in 2005. As a complete sportsman, Kukoyi is a firm believer in the wholesomeness of mind and body as a prerequisite for the attainment of athletics and academic excellence. In 22 years that UNILAG competed in 12 competitions, Kukoyi led the teams to play in nine finals, with the team claiming gold medals in six and settling for silver in three. To his credit, the first Nigerian graduate of French, never lost in any finals played in any tournament hosted by any university in Francophone West Africa. Recalling his romance with cricket, Prof. Kukoyi said: “Cricket for us is a way of life; it is a culture, which never leaves you if you are hooked on it literally. You may not go far with it but what you learn early in it stays with you. “ In short, it is a character-forming game. It is the game of all games so much so that when Britain was at the height of its world dominance as a colonial power, they called IT ‘the game of gentlemen’.” He continued: “It is a game which combines both exertion and high brainpower. You have to be in top shape physically and mentally probably much more than most other games. “But essentially cricket teaches you to be very much on top not just playing but you are thinking because you play the game in your mind. “Once you are in it you are part of it forever. Even if you don’t play it and you are just a spectator that understands the game, you are hooked and you always participate in the game. “I found myself in Cricket because I went to the right school. I was lucky to have been admitted to GCI because to gain admission to GCI was a very tough task in the colonial era and there were about five schools built like that – Barewa College, Queens College, GCI, Edo College and Government College, Umuahia. “Those were the colleges and they were strictly set up on the model of the public schools in Britain for people that will build the society. “To get into GCI in those days you have to write an examination and there was no cheating then. The first 10 in the list of those admitted would receive scholarships. We were 48 in my own set with each class having 24 students each and I was lucky to be among the top 10 who received an automatic scholarship to GCI. “At GCI then, every student was in the boarding house and there were four houses with healthy competitions. The competition among the houses was obvious in social activities and most especially in sports when it comes to inter-house sports games and that prepares you to enter into full, adult life later. You have to submit yourself to authority and every moment and minute was accounted for as your prefects were watching. It was all about discipline and this becomes part of you in life.” On his ability to get quality education alongside his romance with sports, Kukoyi said: “I didn’t create all the activities, you have to submit to the discipline and it becomes part of you. At the time of reading, you read and when it is time for sports you go. You don’t go fooling around. You cut grass and you do all those things which normally every child should be put through but discipline is the word. It becomes part of you and that is the substance of building any nation.” The Octogenarian further explained the nitty-gritty of the game: “Cricket is a passion; it becomes part of you when you are a student and once you learn the basic things, essentially the most important components of cricket are fielding and batting. Fielding is corporate because everybody is fielding together and usually people don’t like fielding. “As a wicket-keeper, you must be focused or else your teeth might go for it just like it happened to me. In those days as a wicketkeeper, we didn’t have gear that was why I was hit when I was batting but it didn’t come out until months later. So people could get injured but you must have the reflexes. One of the very few that was able to combine education and sports successfully, Prof. Kukoyi oozed s much excitement as he spoke on how he teamed up with the national team. He said: “I got into the national team by the time I got into the university. “I went to the University of Ibadan (UI) for my first degree and they also had the same tradition which we knew. I got into university between 1962 and 1963. I was the wicket-keeper at GCI and automatically, I became the wicketkeeper for the university. “People don’t like keeping wickets because you are always at attention; you don’t lose focus. The fellow before me was playing for Nigeria then and he was a medical doctor from the Binitie family. He was just finishing Medicine and he was just about moving out so I just automatically took over from him and that was where I started playing. “Even before I left GCI, we were already playing with the senior teams in Lagos. There used to be a fellow who used to come from Lagos to come and pick about four of us at Ibadan to come for clubs in Lagos at weekends. We were playing for Dayaks Cricket Club and we had Esho, Coker and Falope who became an Air-Vice Marshal in the Air Force.” After his active years as a player, he turned to coaching. “ For my first job, I was first taken to Queen’s College then King’s College within weeks that I left school. “Finally, I was posted as a lecturer to the Nigeria Defence Academy (NDA) in Kaduna where I taught French for a year. “That was the time the University of Lagos was recruiting so I applied and they called me for an interview. “As soon as I got to the University of Lagos, there was no other person doing cricket. But I started building a team. Then, I was already playing for Dayaks and the national team. I was the one who started building the cricket up in the University of Lagos in 1967. I later travelled out to do my PhD Degree in 1969 and I returned to continue.” At UNILAG, Kukoyi assembled and built a strong cricket team that dominated NUGA and WAUG in the late 1970s and early 1980s. He said his relationship with his players was instrumental to the exploits of the team. On the state of cricket in Nigeria, Prof. Kukoyi said: “Cricket has not got there yet but they are building on a solid foundation and they have gotten people interested. So we just need to watch them and see what can be done to help the sport. “But in Cricket, you have to build on the foundation of character. Cricket would have done very well and the new generation would have met a good foundation of it. “When the military took over, they ruined the foundation that was built for years for the sport and every tradition of the game was messed up when they took over the TBS meant for sport.” He added: “We also need to build the sport from within, not from outside. That our team made it to the World Cup for the first time does not mean we are there but we still need to build from within to raise the sport.“ He blamed the abolition of the boarding school system as the genesis of societal failure in the country while describing the boarding system as the best form of education that could rub off on sports and academics across the country. Kukoyi emphasised the need to treat teachers well across the country as they shape the lives of leaders. He lamented the maltreatment meted out to teachers across the nation, which he said has also adversely affected education in the country. He also gave a hint about longevity and secret of a healthy lifestyle at 80: “It is the grace of God and I still do my walkout coupled with the tradition of cricket. “Develop your true self and it will reflect on your body. Once you train your body, it will respond to you,” he counselled. To honour Kukoyi for his contribution to cricket, UNILAG Cricket Alumni will be doing a stone turning ceremony to upgrade the UNILAG Cricket pitch and pavilion to a modern standard.   