With an already established umbilical cord of connectivity, a symbiotic economical relationship became an unbreakable bond between the transportation sector and a national economy. Widely buttressed by the common-view that; “transportation is the lifeblood of every country economy.” This is because the attainment of sustainable development is subjected to a number of factors, including an effective transportation system. This popular perception links me to the World Bank description of one of the progenies of transport‒road. The Breton-Wood institution gave a vignette commentary on roads importance as an “artery through which the economy pulses.” When such an essential contract, state economy recesses but when it relaxes, the economy recovers and ballooned. Hence, this write-up shall orbit around the troika of transport system: road, air and sea. Severely afflicted with decaying transportation infrastructures and its enormous sufferance from modern transport technological syndrome (MTTS), the Nigerian transportation sector ordeal is presently exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic, a disease that shook the world economy with its respiratory disorder ammunition. It closed the health affordability gap between the rich and the poor and sparing not the first or third world countries in its attack. Thereby, operating on a parallelism mode of a proverbial scale that− “no pheasant is taller than the other except the one that mount ridges.” Hardly hit is the helpless Nigeria’s transportation industry as the sector suffered from an irredeemable economical loss invoked by coronavirus pandemic. From airlines suspension to railway prorogation; and from buses and cars restriction to relatively shut-down seaport; all are economically affected by the pandemic. Figures from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) indicated the sector contribution to the Nigeria GDP rose from $642.927 million in the second quarter of 2019 to $720.241 million in the third quarter of 2019. An increment of 1.85% recorded in the corresponding period in 2018, higher than 2.05% recorded in the fourth quarter of 2018. The laudable whopping contribution of the sector to the economy justifies its lifeblood description as an indispensable economical driver through which goods, services, passengers are conveyed locally, regionally and internationally. However, regrettably, the sector booming days had collided with the virus volcanic eruption. Unfortunately, it is interminably draining its potential revenue reservoir. Unarguably, with the boundless look of the virus fight, 2020 GDP contribution of the sector would plunge from the lofty-tower of 2019 statistics down to a jolting point of break-even hunting if care is not taken, leaving behind a state of deficit accumulation. Stuck in the apocalyptic crossroad is the flourishing maritime sector. The country primacy revenue well that uninterruptedly supply and watered the nation green meadow for optimum growth is currently suffering from the pandemic droughtiness. With an estimated vast maritime endowment coastline of 800 kilometres, an Exclusive Economic Zone of over 200 nautical miles, a tremendous inland waterway resources of about 3,000 kilometres comprising of over 50 rivers both large and small that can support a vibrant inter-regional trade. Badly, these aquatic-economical-potentialities are currently lying fallow, affected by the outbreak. In 2019, Nigeria’s import from China alone was ₦4.3trillion, 25% of total imports, while imported manufactured goods took up about 70% of total imports. Presumably, this is affected now as vessels from Asia and other ravaged continents are placed on red alert. The resorted closing down of factories, imposition of travel bans and even total country lock-down as a containment method against the spread of the virus had clipped the NPA revenue generation wing. In spite of the present situation, NPA economical philanthropic capacity can be invigorated through an extension of hands of support by the Hon. Minister of Transport, Rotimi Amaechi to the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing, Messrs Dangote Plc and Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc for the funding and rehabilitation of the Apapa port access road. And this lock-down period would be the perfect time to fast-track the road rehabilitation as the carriage-way is deserted. Making ample opportunity of this siege under the most regulated hygiene and safety condition in accordance with the directives of NCDC. In the shock of economical backwardness that accompanied COVID-19 outbreak, went into a coma, the road transport. The most affordable and accessible means of transport to hoi polloi Nigerians. Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, Abuja-Kano Expressway and Second Niger Bridge rehabilitation/construction works are on hiatus. Not immune from the virus invasion are the disrupted private and public-mass-transit; trucks, motor-cycle and tri-cycle stringently regulated movement. The transport economy conduit that connects the nook and cranny of the country is jeopardized, affecting other businesses activities continuance. Direly affected, also, is the suspended Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge railway project schedule to be completed by June, this year. However, the reality of the projection is a mirage. Chinese experts that work on the project went on New Year holiday break, but are unable to return to resume their duties due to coronavirus. This, therefore, causes a delay in the work progression. Abuja-Kaduna train service that commenced operation on July 26 2016, is also affected by the pandemic scourge. Maintenance of the first West-Africa standard gauge railway during this lock-down and ensuring that the practice is an institutionalized norm of the NRC in order to avert degradation of facilities. Probing the FAAN trials and tribulations in this daunting time of global turmoil and constructing a navigation-map out of the hurdle formed another crux of this thesis as the agency fall under the ministry’s jurisdiction. Aptly remarked by Chris Aligbe on viewpoint, “COVID-19 and FAAN: Avoiding a looming disaster”, published by Vanguard newspaper on March 28, 2020. The aviation consultant discerningly analyzed the effects of the pandemic on FAAN operation and offer some resolution to the distress. In his insightful write-up, he made it known that FAAN primarily generates revenue from airlines through the 5% passengers-service-charge as well as the landing and parking fees. Accrued to her purse also are; rentals and leases charges. All these depend on the level of airline operation that is sadly grounded to halt due to the crises of coronavirus. FAAN suffered the biggest blow among her syndicate of regulatory agencies in the aviation sector that were cornered by the revenue plummet because it manages 22 airports across the nation, all publicly owned. The agency is also expected to run its operation from its IGR, currently not under any annual subvention. A large portion of its is from MMIA, Lagos, which contributes 58% while the NAIA, Abuja, took the second position in revenue generation by contributing 18% which is enough to run its operation. All other remaining 20 airports only generate 26% of FAAN total annual IGR. With this creditable revenue figures, the closure of airports to international flights and the contracted schedules of domestic airlines, FAAN is losing a huge amount of ₦5billion monthly. Apparently, it’s in shut-down times like this that all facilities; from conveyor-belts, runway lights, air-conditioning systems etc should come under effective maintenance as facilities degeneration is an inevitable impairment that would spike in this trying hour. Shockingly, the maintenance culture recommendation cannot be implemented with the flattened treasury of FAAN. Then, what is our option? Borrowing a leaf from other countries that are already looking beyond the COVID-19 hullabaloo will be a welcome imitable development. As President Donald Trump of USA has demonstrated in his giant stride of securing a legislative approval of a gargantuan sum of US$2trillion packaged designed as “Stimulus and Relief” to ensure a non-collapse of the US economy in which the airline subsector benefitted an applaudable amount of US$200billion. Treading a similar path for the future insurance of FAAN and ensuring the nation’s 22 airports do not deteriorate to the point that at the end of COVID-19 which certainly will come, the nation will need huge funds outlay to resuscitate them. Similarly, the sardonic projection of international Air Transport Association (IATA) about the Nigeria aviation industry losing an enormous amount of $0.75billion to the COVID-19 pandemic; risks of 91380 job loss and $0.65billion in contribution to Nigeria’s economy while no fewer than 3.5million passengers would be lost to the plague. Although, the aviation industry might be independent of the transport ministry stewardship but the remora-shark relationship between the duo substantiate the above-stated figures that a boom to the aviation industry is an exponential growth to the transport sector, vice-versa. In positioning the transport industry as a catalyst for Nigeria’s economical growth. I favour the paraphrased cynic’s perspective offered by Allison Anderson that coronavirus is surely not going to be the last pandemic that will threaten the transportation industry. Consequently, I offer the following recommendations: Establishment of a think tank group to develop more strategies in building a more sustainable and globally competitive transport sector. Realignment of our local transportation sector to the evolving Mobility as a Service (MaaS). This has been a rapid response tactic by leading economies to the deadly virus. A process that involves a public-private-mobility-partnership for an integrated movement of goods and people during pandemic. When these are put in place, a good government would not be caught off-the-cuff.