By Dr Ngozi Ogbonna-Erondu The Federal Government has set aside every ‪July 25 as National Diaspora Day in recognition of the contributions of Nigerians living outside the country towards the development of the homeland. In addition, the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM) was established under the dynamic leadership of Honorable Abike Dabiri-Erewa. The commission has been able to galvanise Diasporans from all over the world coordinated many projects including the provision of PPEs worth over N49 million donated recently by Diasporans. Abia Governor Dr Okezie Ikpeazu understands and appreciates the potential of Diasporans to make important and critical contributions to the development and growth of Abia state. He has provided unwavering and unparalleled support to Diasporans via Dr (Mrs) Ngozi Ogbonna-Erondu, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Diaspora Matters and Special Duties. Today, Diasporans can boast of a modernised office space with a conference room in the Government House courtesy of the Governor. It is worth noting that following the evacuation of Nigerians from South Africa last year, Ikpeazu personally ensured that the returnees of Abia state origin were provided job and training opportunities, cash payments and relief materials to help with their resettlement. He has consistently made himself available to respond to questions, issues or concerns raised by Diasporans. Thus, it is not surprising that Abia Diasporans have responded in various significant ways to the needs of their communities and the state. Over the past few years, Diasporans have donated medical equipment and supplies worth over N180m distributed across the 17 LGAs of the state including primary and secondary healthcare facilities. They have conducted multiple medical outreach missions during which they have performed surgeries, provided medications and supplies in various local government areas. There have also been donations of thousands of pairs of shoes, school bags, sanitary materials, note books and other educational materials to school children. Diasporans have also provided scholarship to students at the tertiary level, engaged and supported students with online teaching and presentation. During the pandemic, they have complemented the efforts of the state government in providing educational services through social media and radio broadcasts as well as in donating cash, bags of rice, indomie and other relief items to their communities. They have also made several donations of PPEs to the state isolation centers directly and through NIDCOM. Finally, I would like to commend our Executive Governor, Dr Okezie Ikpeazu for his willingness and readiness to support the Diasporans as they strive to play their part in the betterment of our communities, state and nation. Let us continue to support the state government, because together we can help Abia State grow. Happy Diaspora Day!