 EVERYONE has imperfections, no human being is perfect, we just keep trying to do our best. A lot of people have various ideas on what they think defines capability, from a thriving sex, always laughing around each other, and lots more. I mean I find basket mouth and Alibaba funny but that doesn’t mean I can marry them or I am compatible with them. It might feel a lot like love when the person you’re dating is funny, smart, and likes play station 4 games as much as you do, but true compatibility means so much more than liking their traits. It’s easy to get caught up in romance of saying “love is blind”, but “forever” is a long time to be with one person, I mean a really long time. Whether you’ve been with someone for a week, married for 20 years, or are single and ready to mingle, here’s some tips to help you to know if a relationship is truly compatible. If your partner understands or helps improve your flaws, and you can tolerate and pick up the part where your partner falls short, it’s a pretty good sign that it could be a lasting relationship. so long and short is where you are weak I am strong and where you are strong your strength compliments my weakness. No two people are perfect match by nature. It’s absolutely normal for you to feel difficult sometimes, especially when you find a number of big differences between you and your partner. But that does not mean you are not compatible with your partner necessarily. There’re also a number of very important factors which determine for how long your relationship can last. Below are the 15 signs for reference for you to see whether you and your partner are compatible. However, your partner should understand your “language” in terms of humor, values, and beliefs. If you feel like you have to explain yourself, defend yourself, or prove yourself, you’re spending a lot of your relationship trying to translate who you are. It’s more than agreeing on the big things like kids, where to live, or travelling (that should be a given). It’s about all the specific things: what a “happy” family looks like; what you both want out of your careers; where you want to be in 10, 20, and 50 years; how you’d spend a quiet Sunday morning with nothing to do. True compatibility comes down to finding a plus one to your happiest life possible. You know you love your partner, and you know they love you – and there is no doubt in your mind about either of these things. You are secure and happy in your relationship, and even if you are a worrier by nature, you never question how your partner feels about you. From your embarrassing stories to intimate details about your life, sharing secrets can show how compatible you and your partner really are. Honesty is important in a relationship, but actually wishing to tell them secrets shows your partner that you are truly invested in the relationship. You respect your partner as an individual, and you don’t want to try to change them. Sure, they may talk in their sleep or dress in a way you don’t like, but you love them, and you can deal with it. If you want to change your partner’s personality or appearance, it could mean you and your partner aren’t compatible. When you start a great relationship, it can be hard to step away and spend some time alone. If you and your partner hope to be in a long term relationship, however, it is essential that you also enjoy spending time away from your partner. During such time you can see friends and family, or pursue interests of your own. If you love watching home videos or marathon races and your partner hates it, try to do this in your spare time. While it is important to have your own hobbies and interests, compatible partners make the effort to spend time together doing things they both enjoy. Having common ground with a partner helps in long term relationships – from supporting the same team, to cooking together, to sharing a love of the same film show or movies/series. And you’re not afraid of it! If you tell your partner you disagree with them, they should listen to you and take you seriously. If they still don’t agree with you, that’s totally fine – because it’s just a disagreement, and it won’t change the way you feel about each other. Often big issues can be raised in long term relationships, including money, religion, or where you both live. Most issues like these can be solved if the partners are compatible and are willing to compromise. It is important to work together until you reach a decision you’re both happy with – and for both people to be happy, it is likely that both have to compromise. Your partner should be able to make you a better person; compatible couples keep pushing each other forward. Whether you are learning how to cook a new dish, or getting a promotion at work, your partner should always have your back and support you, and vice versa. If you and your partner are compatible, you should be able to truly be yourself whenever you are around them. Whether you feel happy, hyper, sad or angry, you should be able to comfortably express these emotions to your partner, without worrying about the consequences. While sex obviously isn’t everything, it’s important to be physically intimate with your partner. From holding hands to kissing, compatible couples regularly show each other affection. In other words – there should be a spark, even if it is small! You try to get along with each other’s families If you genuinely love your partner’s family, that’s a great sign. Being in love with someone doesn’t always have to mean you love their family, though. And it’s fine if you don’t – but it isn’t fine if you don’t even try. Most people come with a family, and if your partner is going to be in your life for a long time, their family probably will be too. Compatible couples often go the extra mile as it shows their partner they care, and can help to make them feel appreciated. I wish you all the best.