Northern Professionals in Edo State are rallying support for the All Progressives Congress’ (APC’s) governorship candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu. The group in Benin through its Chairman, Abdallah Tureta, described Ize-Iyamu as a man of integrity. They said: “We, Northern Professionals, resident in Edo State, have resolved to throw our weight behind the governorship candidate of the APC, Pastor Ize-Iyamu. We are assuring him of our support to ensure his victory at the polls on September 19. “We are also commending APC for appointing Kano State Governor Abdullahi Ganduje as the chairman of the Campaign Council for Edo election. Our resolve to back Pastor Ize-Iyamu is in solidarity with Governor Ganduje’s appointment as the chairman of the Campaign Council.” “We came to understand that the wisdom behind Governor Ganduje’s appointment as the chairman of the Campaign Council is to make sure that no opportunity is left unattended, to win the election. His sophistication and skills in politics are acknowledged across board. “Governor Ganduje’s leadership of the APC Campaign Council is an indication that APC is willing and ready to win the Edo governorship election on September 19. As somebody who has developed his state, both in human capital and infrastructure, Ganduje can also be a pillar in influencing the blueprint of how to move Edo State forward, when our candidate wins, which we are very hopeful of. “It is still fresh in our memories how President Muhammadu Buhari, last year, hailed Governor Ganduje, after becoming the best performing governor for three consecutive months, as rated by the APC Progressive Governors’ Forum. “We challenge the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to come forward and showcase the feat Governor Godwin Obaseki achieved in almost four years. Since PDP and Obaseki don’t have anything to show, this is why they have resolved to be attacking personalities.” The professionals said they would mobilise the electorate to vote for Ize-Iyamu to enable him emerge victorious on September 19.