It is said that we live in “the digital age.” But it is obvious that this does not apply to everybody. There are many people who still live in a pre-digital age. This explains why the Soludero Hunters Association, a group of local hunters in Oyo State, says its members will not register online to join the Amotekun Corps in the state. The chairman of the association, Oba Nureni Ajijola-Anabi, was reported saying recruitment into the Amotekun Corps should not be based on paper qualifications. He said: “We told them to focus more on the local people, who know the terrain, including the forests, but they told us to go and register online. “What does online registration have to do with providing security for the people? If they insist on this, we will back out of the exercise…We are hunters; we are familiar with all forests in the zone.”  It is noteworthy that Amotekun is a Yoruba word for Leopard. Operation Amotekun was launched in January by the governors of the six states in the country’s Southwest, Lagos, Oyo, Ogun, Ondo, Osun and Ekiti states, “to ensure an end to insecurity in the South Western, Nigerian region.”   It is the country’s “first regional security outfit initiated by a geopolitical zone.” Members of the security outfit are supposed to include local hunters, the Oodua People’s Congress (OPC), Agbekoya, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) and vigilante groups. How the outfit is expected to operate shows why the Soludero Hunters Association is opposed to recruitment through online registration. This is the picture:  “The operatives of the security outfit will assist police, other security agencies and traditional rulers in combating terrorism, banditry, armed robbery, kidnapping and also help in settling herdsmen and farmers contentions in the region.” Obviously, the outfit needs people who have practical security experience, which is a more important and useful qualification than familiarity with the ways of “the digital age.” It is the responsibility of the outfit to ensure that would-be members are not discouraged by a burdensome recruitment process. If the leadership of the outfit in Oyo State insists on online registration, it should simplify the registration process by providing the required digital devices and recruitment personnel in accessible offices. Are hunters, for instance, expected to bear the burden of online registration? In particular, it is unrealistic to ask hunters who want to join the outfit to apply online, which is alienating, considering their background.  Is this a covert move to turn the security outfit into an elitist outfit?