Ezinne Rose Okereke’s love for psychological thrillers made her consider studying Psychology over Law. But  her mum’s foresight helped her navigate her career path. The Enugu State University of Science and Technology (ESUT) alumnus shares her law story with ROBERT EGBE. Family My name is Ezinne Rose Okereke. I am from Abor in Udi Local Government Area (LGA). I am currently into private practice. My dad is late, died and was buried in the year 2000. My mother is Rev. Chika Okereke, Head Guidance Counsellor at Government Technical College (GTC) Enugu. We are three: two girls and a boy. I am the second child and the first daughter. Secondary school was amazing I attended VON Nursery and Primary School. I also attended Providence High School both in Enugu. Secondary school. Life was quite memorable, it was an all-girls school, and we had an amazing principal who taught us how to be a total lady, down to how we were to sit in class, (Laughs). One of such scenarios occurred during her class sessions every Friday where she took us on Morals and Principles of being a well groomed Lady (tagged Principal’s contact). During her lectures, we sat on plastic stools. She made sure that we sat on those stools with our backs straight and our feet firmly closed together on the floor. In as much as we looked forward to her teaching and possible learning of new songs, we dreaded the long hours of having to sit still and poised. Well, it is paying off now. Getting a degree was stressful I attended Enugu State University of Science and Technology (ESUT) and graduated in the year 2016. Truth must be told, getting a degree in ESUT was stressful. The law faculty was a bit better. It operated like a different institution, always organised and accessible. Then I attended the Nigerian Law School, Agbani Campus 2017/2018 set and graduated in 2018. Three uncles The three uncles who were a big part of my growing up days were lawyers. They are Prof. Agu Gabriel Agu, Amechi Okoye Esq and Peter Eze Esq. I never really accompanied any of them to court but I often frequented their firm and I craved to be like them especially Prof. Gabriel Agu (my mum’s elder brother). Mum saved me from error My uncle, Prof. Agu, was my major inspiration; we call him Agunaecheibe and that totally defined my paths. Agunaecheibe, a titled name, implies that the bearer is an Ozo….It actually means a “Lion that guards/protects its kind”. I wanted to grow up to be a sound advocate like him. At a point though, because I enjoyed reading novels, my mind started to tilt towards dumping Law and studying Psychology. Thankfully, my mom saved me from making that error. Winning an award at varsity I got an award at university; it was a form of appreciation for being bold in actions back then. Law students who found me worthy conferred the award on me, on our last award night in 2016. I felt really good. Back then in school, if you’re called to pick an award and a huge crowd didn’t accompany you to pick it up, you will feel bad. Well, I received my award with a crowd cheering me to and on the stage. Law School schedule was tough I resumed second semester in law school late (January 2018) because I received my admission late (same month) and it wasn’t funny. I had lots of backlog to go through; it was God’s grace that saw me through. No time for recreation at all! We had lectures from 9am-3pm. Then mop up class for the backlog from 5pm-7pm then Reading group around 9pm. The schedule was something else for me. Celebrating Call to Bar My uncles showed up big time via financial support. There was no grand party. I needed to save my money for something else. For a shopping spree…..I just have to look fly/good in this profession of mine. (Laughs). My Mom and younger sister only showed up at the International Conference Centre (ICC) Abuja, with me. Afterwards my friends in Abuja did a small get-together for me. First solo appearance was frightening I was nervous. I appeared solo same year I started practice to take a ruling. You could hear the fright in my voice as I announced myself. Most memorable day in court Oh! I have two. In the first appearance, my uncle, Prof. Agu, introduced me as a new wig to Justice Onourah’s court of Enugu State High Court. Then the day I appeared for a matter and moved a motion with guidance from my senior, whom I appeared with. Embarrassing day Yes o! I had a motion to move and a further affidavit. I moved the motion without including the existence of the further affidavit….my God! I was embarrassed. It was the Judge who called my attention to it. Well, it gets better by the day. Marrying a lawyer? Yes! It would be great gain to be with someone who speaks same language as you. You both can never run out of topics for discussion. What  I would change about law practice I would change the way The Nigerian Police Force insult/harass lawyers who go to them on behalf of their clients. I would raise a proper standard for legal practitioners and the legal practice. I had a bitter experience with the Nigerian Police Force sometime in July, 2020. My clients were held for a traffic offence which resulted in a scuffle with a policeman on duty. I got there to try settling the issue peacefully. Upon hearing that I was a lawyer, their attitude towards me changed. They went behind my back to tell my client to let me go that my presence was prolonging their matter. They didn’t stop there, after the whole rigmarole that lasted for five hours, the Investigative Police Officer (IPO) saw that I was still adamant on what should be done. He told me plainly that I should find money for them to release my clients. I  was so shocked that I had to record the encounter. The Nigeria Police Force has no respect for young lawyers and they treat them like trash. I plead with the current leadership of the Nigerian Bar Association and the incoming leadership to do something about this. The Nigeria Police Force should respect lawyers no matter their level of experience or exposure. Enough is enough. Mentors I look up to Prof. Agu and Mr Eze Esq. They have different styles of practice that I admire. SAN, Professor or Judge? Tough one! I would go for becoming a Judge, I admire the way Justice C.C. Ani (of the Enugu State High Court) handles her court, that and many more forms my decision. My future I would love to become one of the best intellectual property lawyers in the world.