 THE unfolding drama in the Edo State governorship election has taken a new twist, with the suspension of some councillors, who were elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), for refusing to defect with Governor Godwin Obaseki to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In the build-up to the PDP governorship primary, Governor Obaseki dumped the APC, following his disqualification from contesting the party’s primary. Obaseki made the move with the expectation that other elected party officials, particularly at the grassroots, will join him in his new party to drum up support for his second term bid. But unfortunately, some of them have refused to do so and are being victimised for their stand. In Owan West Local Government, for instance, three councillors have been suspended for shunning the directive. Also affected is one councillor in Owan East Local Government, a vice-chairman and six councillors in Akoko Edo Local Government, six councillors in Etsako West, six in Etsako East and three in Etsako Central. Their suspension was announced by their chairmen and the development is said to be the handiwork of Deputy Governor Philip Shaibu, who is desperate to deliver the zone for the PDP in the September 19 poll.  The above local governments are located in Edo North, the senatorial district of former national chairman Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and Shaibu. Edo State conducted local government elections two years ago and all the officials were elected on the APC platform. Last month, three councillors in Uhunmwonde Local Government, with the tacit support of their Chairman, Napoleon Agbama, removed the Leader of the House, Osarobo Ogbegiere, for similar reasons. Ogbegiere was placed on suspension, ostensibly following a directive from the Edo Government House. Ogbegiere had indicated that the development was an aberration. He said: “What happened is an aberration because you don’t impeach the leader of the House by three people. We are 10 in number. I was just going through one of our social media platforms and that is where I saw it. I have said that the crisis in the APC was not necessary and when the governor defected I insisted that I will consult with the people of my ward and they said we should remain and that is why myself and others who have refused to defect are now being oppressed. “However, I have resolved to take my case to the court because that is the last hope of the common man.” But the Chief Press Secretary to the chairman, Osaro Best Idahosa, denied the allegation. “The leader of the house misbehaved and the others met and removed him. It is not true that it is because he did not defect.” Similarly, three of 10 councillors of Ovia Southwest Local Government equally removed the council’s legislative leader, Mr. Robert Fiyes. This is because the house leader refused to defect from the APC to the PDP with the  chairman.