 On the surface, the resignation (or retirement notices) of 365 soldiers, out of a 200, 000-strong army, should not raise any eye-brow. This is more so when military entry and exit are routine, with new recruits replacing discharged service (wo)men, year after year, on almost equal basis, except there are specific policies, for expansion or contraction. So, this number is comparatively insignificant. But not so the reason, and the grumblings latterly from the military front, particularly from the theatre of war, in the troubled North East, the epicentre of the Boko Haram terrorism. Which would explain why the media has picked more than a passing interest in, and the House of Representatives has ordered its Committee on the Army to investigate, the application for voluntary discharge, by 365 soldiers, from the Nigerian Army. The House plenary took the decision after unanimously adopting a motion on Matters of Urgent Public Importance, by its Chief Whip, Mohammed Monguno (APC, Borno). Here is how the Chief Whip pushed out the case to plenary: “On July 3, 2020, 365 soldiers, which is a battalion, serving in the North East and other theatres of operations, wrote to the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), asking for voluntary retirement from the force, and citing loss of interest, as reasons for their retirement.” But the parliamentarian appeared piqued that the COAS readily granted the soldiers’ request, vide a 17-page circular, signed by Brig-Gen. T. E. Gagariga, instead of first looking into the ugly conditions that have triggered such a request. Though both the approving authorities and the applying soldiers appear to have acted within the framework of extant laws, the worry of Monguno is not totally misplaced, with the dreadful tales that he alleged at that same plenary. Premium Times quoted him as claiming an erstwhile commander of Operation Lahya Dole, the counter-terrorism headquarters, was removed for allegedly exposing his soldiers to inferior armour; and another GOC of 7 Division of the Nigerian Army in Maimalari, barely escaping lynching by irate troops, for leaving battling troops with no food or water for two days, on the Boko Haram front. The lawmaker also claimed troops had on several occasions disobeyed superior orders because of poor welfare, following alleged embezzlement of approved allowances by some superior officers; and lack of adequate intelligence to map out battle plans, thus resulting in higher fatalities in the terror war. All of these, he claimed, had resulted in low morale, which explained why the 365 soldiers prematurely wanted to leave. He also spoke of the distraught soldier, a lance corporal, who on June 22 lampooned the COAS in a social media video footage that went viral, condemning his senior officers’ attitude to the plight of the troops on the terror front. While Representative Monguno spoke in plenary covered by parliamentary immunity, it is imperative that a proper House probe gets to the root of these allegations, to confirm their truth or otherwise; and thereafter, think of workable solutions. It is virtual heresy, both as service creed and personal discipline, for a commissioned soldier to upload such irreverent video. That was tantamount to e-mutiny and it is no time to start romanticizing such reckless conduct. The initial reaction, of restraint by the military authorities, is also welcome. They adduced the behaviour to trauma, which often comes with dire immediate battle psychology. Still, the military authorities must follow up that initial calm and wisdom with clinical self-assessment, which should power the probe into situations that must have caused such an outrage. Nigeria’s security, which is why the country has a standing army, is too vital to be left to racketeering officers and disgruntled men. Besides, soldiers with hardly other skills opting for premature retirement, because of sudden lack of interest in their commission, could be a recipe for future dire insecurity, in this age of armed robbery, kidnapping and allied violent crimes. That is why the army authorities must take counsel in the old saying: prevention is better than cure, as they manage their troops and sundry personnel, in these hard times. There is also the need to re-train the army, officers and rank-and-file, in an ethos compliant with the democratic temper, even with the regimental essence of the military. If the rank-and-file are unhappy, it is doubtful if they can deliver on the sacred oath they signed up for: laying down life, or committed to losing limbs, so the motherland could live and thrive. Let everyone, civil and military authorities, take the current situation as an emergency. Re-tweaked with all patriotism, honesty, courage and nobility, Nigeria will yet attain the armed forces of its dreams.