Ebonyi State Governor David Umahi last Saturday became the seventh governor to test positive to the Coronavirus. ROBERT EGBE looks at how the circumstances surrounding the governors’ Coronavirus status. Jesuit priest James Martin proposed a deep philosophical question in his March 22 New York Times article ‘Where is God in a pandemic?’ His answer was no less intriguing. “The honest answer is: We don’t know,” the cleric said. Farther Martin was attempting to address the “panic, fear, anger, sadness, confusion and despair” that followed the outbreak of the novel coronavirus. He was speaking to Americans, but if his audience were Nigerians he would probably have received a different answer. In a deeply religious country where names like Godstime, Godswill or even Godswish are not unheard of, Martin could have been upbraided for his ‘faithlessness’. For instance, just before the article’s publication, Nigerians were also pondering a similar question. The virus had made landfall in Lagos on February 27, and there were doubts about the country’s preparedness to manage a potential health crisis. But as of July 5, 28,167 COVID-19 positive cases had been confirmed, 11,462 cases discharged and 634 deaths recorded in 35 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Seven of the positive cases are governors. They are: Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, Bauchi State Governor Bala Mohammed, Kaduna State Governor Nasir El Rufai, Ebonyi State Governor David Umahi and Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde. UMAHI Last Saturday, Umahi announced that he had tested positive for COVID-19. Umahi’s Special Assistant on Media, Mr. Francis Nwaze, confirmed the news and also revealed that some associates of the governor also tested positive. He said the governor had not shown any symptoms of the disease, though he had isolated himself in line with the NCDC protocols. “The governor has directed his Deputy, Dr Kelechi, to coordinate the state’s fight against the disease and appealed to the citizens to take the NCDC protocols seriously. “He will currently be working from ‘home’ and will be conducting all meetings virtually,” Nwaze added. So far, 438 cases of COVID-19 have been recorded in Ebonyi. The state has the 14th highest number of cases in the country. AKEREDOLU Akeredolu, last Tuesday, announced that he tested positive for the virus. He stated that he was asymptomatic and had been self-isolating, adding that irrespective of his COVID-19 status, work still continues. From his self-isolation, Akeredolu on Friday appointed his Special Adviser on Health, Jibayo Adeyeye, as the state’s Acting Health Commissioner and the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Medical Sciences, Ondo, Adesegun Fatusi, as the new chairman of the State Inter-ministerial Committee Against Covid-19. Both positions were held by the immediate past health commissioner, Dr. Wahab Adegbenro, who died last Thursday of complications arising from Covid-19. But the estranged Deputy Governor Agboola Ajayi is insisting that Akeredolu should hand over to him within 21 days, failing which the constitution will be invoked. Ajayi, who spoke through his Media Adviser, Comrade Allen Sowore, said Section 190(2) of the 1999 Constitution required Akeredolu to hand over to his deputy. Responding to Ajayi’s call Akeredolu vowed that he would not entrust the state to “a threat to good governance in the state.” So far, 410 cases of COVID-19 have been recorded in Ondo. The state has the 16th highest number of cases in the country with 20 deaths. OKOWA Okowa announced on his Facebook page last Wednesday that he and his wife Edith had tested positive for COVID-19. “My wife and I have tested positive for COVID-19. We are well and continuing with our isolation/medication. We thank you all for your continued prayers for us and our daughter”, he wrote. The governor had gone on June 27 gone into 14-day isolation with his family after one of his daughters tested positive for the virus. Also, two top officials of the government tested positive to the virus recently. So far, 1,227 cases of COVID-19 have been recorded in Delta. The state has the sixth highest number of cases in the country with 25 deaths. IKPEAZU Ikpeazu expressed the default Nigerian optimism and faith when he said COVID-19 would not afflict Abians, because the state was “mentioned in the Bible”. Ikpeazu said: “Abia is the only state that is mentioned in the Bible. We have a promise from God that none of these diseases will touch God’s people. And I hold on to God’s promise. “We saw Ebola, it did not get to us. We saw monkey pox, it didn’t get to us. Even this one (coronavirus) will also pass us by.” Ikpeazu had every reason to be optimistic. As at March 30, there were only 111 confirmed cases of COVID19 reported in Nigeria with one death. Abia was coronavirus-free. But on June 8, Ikpeazu joined thousands of other Nigerians infected with the virus. However, on July 4, it was announced that that he had tested negative. Information Commissioner John Okiyi Kalu, in a two-paragraph statement, confirmed that the governor tested negative last Friday. So far, 383 cases of COVID-19 have been recorded in Abia. The state has the 17th highest number of cases in the country with three deaths. MOHAMMED Mohammed was the state’s index case of COVID-19, following clinical tests carried out on him and his aides. His Senior Special Assistant on Media, Mukhtar Gidado, announced this last March 24. A fortnight later Mohammed said he had recovered. He expressed his joy on Twitter, writing: “Alhamdulillah. I just received the green light. My second test for #COVID19 returned negative.” 516 cases of COVID-19 have been recorded in Bauchi. The state has the 12th highest number of cases in the country with 12 deaths. EL-RUFAI El-Rufai recovered from COVID-19 — after nearly four weeks of treatment. The governor announced his recovery on Twitter on April 22. The governor, who became bearded while in isolation, attended a virtual meeting chaired by his deputy, two days earlier. 855 cases of COVID-19 have been recorded in Kaduna. The state has the 9th highest number of cases in the country with 12 deaths. MAKINDE Makinde, last April 6, narrated that he had recovered from COVID-19 a week after he tested positive to the disease. He is one of the three governors who tested positive the same week. Others were Mohammed and El-Rufai. From isolation, he sent out messages of hope to Oyo State residents, assuring them that the state would pull through the COVID-19 scourge. “I am known as a long-distance runner. If I can outrun and outlast the virus, which I am sure, by God’s grace, I will do, so also will many of our people in Oyo State,” he wrote in one of such messages. 1,466 cases of COVID-19 have been recorded in Oyo. The state has the 3rd highest number of cases in the country with 14 deaths.