More stakeholders have weighed in on the dispute between the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) and Ocean Marine Solutions Limited (OMSL) over the Secure Anchorage Area (SAA). The Ship Owners Association of Nigeria (SOAN) and the National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders on Wednesday urged President Muhammadu Buhari to intervene in the row. They want the Senate’s decision on the matter to be respected. OMSL, working in partnership with the Navy, operates the SAA off the coast of Lagos for vessels that require a dedicated and compliant maritime security solution. The SAA is protected by multiple-armed patrol boats (PBs), which enforce a Maritime Exclusion Zone (MEZ) around the anchored vessels to interdict and deter potential threats. President of SOAN Dr Mkgeorge Onyung said in a statement that its members received notices from NPA to the effect that they should leave the SAA. “This, to say the least, is disturbing and quite counter-productive. It is also capable of exacerbating uncertainty, disrupting the relative calm that shipowners have enjoyed in recent times,” SOAN said. The association recalled that the Senate last December overruled the NPA on OMSL’s suspension from Lagos ports and cleared the firm of any wrongdoing. But the NPA reportedly said the Senate’s decision was advisory and that it was not bound by it. “The support provided by OMSL, whose fleet of 50 ships are domiciled with the Navy, in securing the Lagos delineation of the nation’s maritime space has been the biggest relief we have savoured in recent times against pirates. “This has given so much confidence to international shipping lines that make port calls to Lagos and in turn has boosted revenue significantly, creating massive jobs and a huge impact on the economy,” the association said. The SOAN said pirates have been having a field day in the absence of a similar security arrangement in the Port Harcourt axis of the waterways. “The dedicated security services offered to ship operators at the SAA have not contravened any laws but are patriotic initiatives that complement the government’s efforts. “The recent threat by the NPA leadership to arrest or sanction vessels that utilise the services provided at the SAA is, therefore, very disturbing and disruptive of the peace in the shipping industry. “Apart from being in direct disregard of the Senate investigative report on the SAA, the threat is not backed by any known international laws and thus would send negative signals about Nigeria to the shipping community,” the association said. Besides, it noted that the NPA is not vested with the power to provide maritime security nor does it have a security architecture in place if the OMSL is forced to terminate its support to the Navy for the SAA. “Mr President Sir, we request that you intervene and call the leaderships of the NPA, OMSL and any warring factions to immediate order to avoid the proverbial saying not to throw away a baby with the bathwater. “This will ensure that we have some respite in the SAA in the interest of the nation and our industry,” the SOAN said, adding that it had sought audience with the Presidency to further discuss the issues. Other stakeholders in the maritime sector also disagreed with the notice directing shipping companies to boycott the Secure Anchorage Area. They said it may lead to an upsurge of criminality in the Gulf of Guinea. According to the 2019 United Nations Office for West Africa and the Sahel Report, Nigeria lost approximately $2.8 billion in 2018, due to crude oil and maritime crimes. NAGAFF President, Mr Increase Uche, said dismantling the SAA may fuel insecurity. “If the NPA has intelligence report that Nigeria’s security is being threatened, the government should investigate and take action. “The position of concerned shipping operators is that we want to see that our waters are well-secured,” he said. A maritime analyst, Emeka Ejiofor, said any disruption of the SAA arrangement operated by OMSL might result in huge losses for the shipping community. “Ships may be compelled to divert goods destined for Nigeria to other countries which will not do the country’s economy any good.”