Ahead of resumption of schools for exit classes, the Rivers State Governor, Nyeson Wike, has distributed COVID-19 protective kits to 257 public schools in the state. Wike, who distributed the items acquired by his government, said the move was in line with the guidelines for resumption of schools. The governor, who was represented by his Deputy, Dr. Ipalibo Banigo, said his government attached premium to the education and health of Rivers children. Banigo said the sanitary and hygiene kits consisting of hand sanitizers, gloves, face masks, detergents, running water buckets, and disinfectants were part of government’s effort to ensure that students were not infected with the coronavirus. She said: “The Wike administration is concerned about the education and health of children of the state. He does not want anyone to be infected with COVID-19. “This is why the Governor has provided all these kits in preparation for the resumption of public schools in the state in accordance with the COVID-19 guidelines.” She urged the principals to ensure the proper utilization of the kits by sanitizing their school environment and also following the necessary COVID-19 protocols. He appealed to the students to cooperate with their teachers to ensure their success during the exit examinations. In his remarks, the State Commissioner for Education, Prof. Kaniye Ebeku said the kits distributed through the principals of the schools would assist them when they reopen for exit examinations. Ebeku said that the COVID-19 kits were given to all the 257 schools approved for the 2020 West Africa Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination, (WASSCE) Centres. He said the state would soon announce the resumption date for schools addinhg that the ministry would monitor the process and any Principal found wanting would be punished. Responding on behalf of the principals, the Secretary of the All Nigeria Conference of Principals of Secondary Schools in the State, Mrs. Sophia Davies-Ideh lauded Wike for the donation. She assured of adequate utilization of the kits to protect teachers and students from the pandemic.