Ondo Deputy Governor, Hon Agboola Ajayi and some other aspirants who lost at the primary of the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) have accepted defeat. The Ondo PDP governorship primary was won by a former Commissioner for Justice and Attorney General, Barr. Eyitayo Jegede with a margin of 888 votes. Jegede was followed closely by Ajayi who 657 votes. Ajayi, in a statement in Akure, thanked the people of Ondo State “for standing with the PDP ‘in the struggle to liberate our State.” He said he accepted the outcome in good faith, knowing fully well it was a race against different forces. According to him: “We remain undaunted and resolute about our commitment to a people oriented government against personalised democracy. “We wish the good people of Ondo State and the winner the best as we March on. For us, life goes on.” A former Vice Chairman South West of the PDP, Eddy Olafeso, who came a distant third with 175 votes, said he was ready to support Jegede only if he (Jegede) was willing to seek his cooperation. Speaking at a media chat in Akure, Olafeso said his desire was to give a facelift to Ondo and reposition it for the overall benefits of its entire citizenry. Olafeso said “I pray that the flag bearer, Barr Eyitayo Jegede, will be able to encapsulate our dream. Our desire is to raise economic programme that can usher in prosperity to our people. “He must take a look at our educational sector, look at the health programme left behind by Dr. Olusegun Mimiko. He must also ensure that the party is fun efficiently. “We must bring back the glorious times of Papa Ajasi, Papa Adefarati, Olusegun Agagu and Olusegun Mimiko if we are to continue to move on in this state. “Our support to Jegede is not going to be a blanket support. He will have to tell us what is the need for us. If our candidate is willing to seek for our cooperation then at a very formal and informal level we will have to talk. Most of what needed to be done rest with him.” A former spokesman of the PDP, Banji Okunomo, who got 90 votes at the primary, advised Jegede to unite the party and be ready to work with everybody to form the next government in Ondo State.