Since the inception of the COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria, the public healthcare centres have been overwhelmed due to urgent attention given towards combating the raging virus. According to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), as at Tuesday July 22, COVID-19 has killed 813 patients out of the 38, 344 cases confirmed to have contracted the virus. As of July 22, there are 21,716 active cases across all states of the country and 15,815 discharged after testing negative. But, the media has reported the numerous cases of stranded citizens who died treatable illnesses because of neglect at the hospitals occasioned by the pandemic period. In an interview with The Nation, President of the National Association of Nigerian Nurses and Midwives (NANNM) AbdulRafiu Adeniji advised outpatient techniques for treatment to reduce the rate of mortality when access to hospital becomes difficult. “One of the lessons COVID-19 has taught us is the dire need for tele-medicine and tele-nursing,” Adeniji said. Wikipedia defines tele-medicine as use of information technology in the provision of medical services whenever physical distance exists between patient and doctors or between any number of nurses. As a field, it has many points of contact with other medical and non-medical applications such as tele-diagnosis, tele-consultation, and tele-monitoring.  International inclusion: According to a 2019 report,  the global telemedicine market is expected to be worth $53.1 billion by 2026 with a compound annual growth rate of 14.19% from 2019 to 2026. At the inception of COVID-19, countries like the US and Australia have accommodated telemedicine as a policy into their public healthcare systems. Although Nigeria is yet to expressively include it in its national policy, some private institutions seem to be promoting it. Even the government is taking a similar approach in handling COVID-19 by encouraging self-isolation, telephone diagnosis.  Peek into telemedicine in Nollywood: Elevator Baby, one of the latest Nollywood movies on Netflix, employed telemedicine – that is tele-delivery – in driving home its central message. At the climax of the over two hours of the movie, the trio of the screen divas: Yemi Solade, Toyin Abraham and Timini Egbuson brought to the scene an intriguing enactment using a phone call to facilitate safe and baby delivery. You should perhaps see the movie too! Reeling out the plans of the association, the NANNM’s President revealed: “We are now training a crop of people who would be in charge of health call centres to give over-the-counter remedies. This will reduce the impacts of the burden of diseases and save lives. “By the virtue of our network, we can easily identify the nurses, doctors, laboratory attendants at each senatorial district that would work hand-in-hand for coordination when there is a need to redirect people to nearby hospitals. “There may be challenges along the way but this is an initiative that has been in practice in advanced countries and we hope to succeed with it too in order to give qualitative, safe, timely, very accessible counselling and care.”     