The General Overseer of Omega Power Ministries (OPM) Chibuzor Chinyere at the weekend closed a free Specialist Hospital built and operated by his church at Aluu community, Ikwerre Local Government Area of Rivers state. Chinyere orderd the shutdown of the hospital following exorbitant levies from the host community. Speaking in Port Harcourt, the General Overseer said he sought the intervention of the community leaders, who insisted that the levies were compulsory. He promised to relocate the hospital to a friendlier environment saying he felt sad for pregnant women, who were receiving medical attention at the hospital. He said: “With a heavy heart, I, the General Overseer of Omega Power Ministries, Apostle Chibuzor Chinyere have decided to close down the free hospital in Aluu community with effect from Sunday 5th July 2020. “I feel sad for those pregnant women who have been using the hospital. I urge them to look for another hospital. Once we get a new location that is more friendlier, we will relocate our equipment. All patients have been advised to stop coming to the hospital. “I called some of their leaders and told them about the levies, but they said it is a compulsory levy, so i don’t have any choice than to shut it down.”  The pastor recalled that the free hospital saved lives of pregnant women in the area at no cost, explaining that drugs surgeries, ante natal and post-natal services were delivered to patients free of charge. “The generators in the free hospital are runned everyday with high cost on diesel. OPM Free Specialist Hospital has saved many lives free of charge. It will interest the public to know that from registration, ante natal, scan, delivery, drugs and post-natal services including surgeries were all free, this is a free hospital which does not discriminate”, he said. But a statement from Ogabakor-Aluu described the accusations against their community as baseless, saying they were meant to malign the people. The group asked the cleric to make public the alleged notice served on him by the community and urged the public to disregard the accusations. The group said: “The attention of Ogabakor Aluu has been drawn to a viral post by Omega Power Ministries to malign our clan Aluu with the false accusation of being charged an outrageous amount of levy by Aluu people. “The claim by OPM will be regarded as false accusation until we see the signatories of Ogbakor Aluu chairman and secretary on the demand notice they were served. On this note, we dare OPM to publicise the demand notice they claim we served them.”