 As Africa is projected to become home to 25 percent of the global population in 2050, the demand for balanced food is expected to be high, especially protein. The Food and Agriculture Organisation’s (FAO’s) data estimates the yearly growth rates in consumption of livestock products up to 2050 in Africa – as 3.3 per cent  for poultry and pork, 3.1 per cent for eggs, 2.5 per cent  for beef and 2.2 per cent  for milk. So far, consumption of meat, milk and eggs by pregnant, breastfeeding women and babies in the first 1,000 days of life is low in sub-Saharan Africa, despite their nutritional benefits, according to a report by the International Livestock Research Institute (ILRI) and the United Kingdom (UK)-based Chatham House Centre on Global Health Security. The report noted that there was a demonstrable nutritional benefit of providing children with livestock-derived foods, especially in Africa and South Asia where under nutrition is highest. To this end, experts have called for deliberate and well-thought out policies aimed at making protein available and affordable to improve its consumption in Nigeria. The Nigerian Protein Deficiency Survey Report 2019, unveiled at the launch of the Nigerian Protein Awareness, attributed major determinants of meals in Nigeria to affordability and  availability. Speaking during the webinar on “Nigeria’s Food Culture and the Challenge of Protein Deficiency”, President, Poultry Association of Nigeria, Mr. Ezekiel Ibrahim, said Nigeria deteriorated in protein consumption because of poor government and poor planning. According to him, successive governments have paid lip service to agriculture following the discovery of crude oil. He said chicken remained the best source of animal protein and that it took just four weeks for a broiler to be ready for consumption. He explained that agriculture was the way to go but was capital intensive, noting that interest rates were too high to help those in the business. To boost food production, he called for a deliberate policy to encourage the youth to go into farming. The Medical Director, Pinecrest Special Hospital, Dr. Omadeli Boyo, noted the increasing cases of malnutrition and under nutrition, threatening the survival, growth and development of children and young persons. He stressed that iron deficiency, (anaemia), protein-energy malnutrition, and vitamin A deficiency remained major concerns. Boyo canvassed dietary diversification as a way of dealing with the deficiencies. According to him, Nigerians are eating too little of what they need, and too much of what they don’t need.He explained that eating habits were influenced by knowledge of balanced nutrition. Boyo stressed that the agricultural sector must put proper nutrition at the heart of production to increase the availability of healthy and affordable foods in markets. Boyo noted that the food system was key to providing children and young people with  nutritious, safe and affordable diets. Commending the Federal Government’s school feeding initiative, he pushed for the fortification of staple foods with micronutrients to combat hidden hunger and eradicate deficiencies in children. He made a case for food companies and other organisations to invest in the development of affordable nutritious products to meet their commitment to Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) and increase their reach in an untapped market. Boyo added that multi-sectoral collaborations were essential in creating a culture that delivers real, large-scale change in improving health. The Managing Director, CMRG, Mr. Lanre Fasakin, spoke of plant-based protein as a very good alternative since meat-based proteins had become luxury items in the Nigerian menu. He identified soya bean as a very rich source of protein, but also a major ingredient in animal feeds. A MasterCard Foundation Scholar, Linda Nwaodu, who moderated the webinar, noted a rise in nutrient deficiencies in many population groups, urging for increased protein intake. The Chief Executive, Mediacraft Associates, Mr. John Ehiguese, noted that improvement in the economy was necessary for availability and affordability protein in Nigeria.