Each time it rains in Lagos State, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu receives imaginary strokes of the cane from some residents. His offence: Our drainage channels are clogged by plastic bags. So, each time there is a flash flood, what takes over our roads is not just water but an assemblage of nylon bags, Styrofoam cups, take-out packs, and other disposables. With the Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMet) predicting that we will have not less than 240 to 270 days rain in Lagos between March and November, we all need to beg Sanwo-Olu to stop this ‘plastic assault’ on our gutters and canals. Another angle to this plastic menace concerns ocean waste. Some of these plastic bags that we drop in the drains find their way into the ocean. A report in September 2019 by the Voice of America (VOA) showed that Nigeria generated an estimated 32 million tonnes of solid waste per year, one of the highest in Africa. Plastics constitute 2.5 million tonnes. A report by the World Economic Forum projects that by the year 2050, plastics in the oceans will outweigh fish. Of the 260 million tonnes of plastics produced in the world each year, about 10 per cent ends up in the ocean and 70 per cent of this sinks and damages seabed creatures. The International Solid Waste Association (ISWA), in a study, says 83 per cent of the 4.8–12.7 million tonnes of land-based plastic waste that ends up in the ocean originates from Nigeria and nineteen other countries. Of course, our dear Lagos plays a vital role, no thanks to our indiscipline. Over 200,000 metric tonnes of plastic waste from land-based sources in Nigeria, according to estimates, is discharged into the Atlantic Ocean each year. Plastic bags in the drains and the Atlantic Ocean are not the only things these folks blame Sanwo-Olu for; another bothers on dredging along the coastline of the state. A report indicates that if illegal dredging should continue, local government areas in the riverine areas have a high risk of flooding measured in kilometres. Seventy-nine per cent of the Eti-Osa local government landmass is listed as black spot. Of its 168km, almost nothing is left with 133km under threat. Jokes apart, it will be unfair to blame Sanwo-Olu for our refusal to play our civic responsibilities. Dredging endangered coastline and clogging the drainage channels with nylon bags, Styrofoam cups, take-out packs, and other disposables show irresponsibility. It can be argued that the government should enforce discipline, but is it too much for us to be good citizens? Drive through Lagos some minutes after a downpour and you will be confronted by drainage systems clogged by plastic bags. Our gutters are blocked, not by sand, but by plastic bags and other plastic products. It was never like that. I cannot recollect seeing streets flooded with plastic waste after rains in the 80s and 90s. We were more responsible then. We have become reckless, very reckless with the way we dispose of plastic bags. And when the rains come, they are washed into the drainage and everywhere is flooded. We blame the government for blocked drainages but the bulk of the fault should be placed on our abuse of plastic bags. The government is not blameless. Its fault is that it does not instil discipline in its citizens by catching and punishing offenders. Aside from punishing offenders, we need to emulate the policies elsewhere. In advanced countries and some developing ones, the danger of plastic bags is being tamed. The first time I noticed this was on a trip to the United Kingdom. I bought an item in a store and I was asked if I needed a plastic bag for the item to be wrapped. I wondered why I was being asked when it should be obvious that I should be given a plastic bag as a right. It dawned on me that I was asked the question because a new law just came into effect mandating stores to charge for plastic bags. When I saw that I was to pay five pence, I declined, offering to carry the item without the bag. After that, I started going with a plastic bag anytime I went for shopping. I was saving money, but the country was being saved and the environment was the better for it. To show its seriousness to save the environment, the UK government has made all retailers double the current five pence fee for plastic carrier bags. The government was obviously encouraged to take this line of action after statistics show that the current plan has helped the environment. Before the policy was introduced in 2015, the use of plastic bags in supermarkets in England was out of control. Over 7.6 billion carrier bags were given to customers in 2014. The introduction of the policy, researches have shown, led to retailers taking 15 billion carrier bags out of circulation. Tesco, Asda, Sainsbury’s, Morrisons, Waitrose, Marks & Spencer and The Co-op, which are the UK’s seven biggest supermarkets, recorded 86 per cent drop in plastic bag sales after the policy was introduced. This, said statisticians, means an “equivalent of one person using around 140 plastic bags each year before the charge, to just 19 bags in 2017-18”. A report by the Centre for Environment, Fisheries, and Aquaculture Science (Cefas) shows that plastic bag marine litter dropped by half. All thanks to the charge. Interestingly, small and medium shops that still give out bags free of charge still give over 3.6 billion plastic bags to their customers every year. The new plan intends to force small and medium shops to implement the ten pence charge. This will be more reduction in waste and money for local, national, and environmental charities. By 2022, a tax will also be introduced on plastic packaging without at least 30 per cent recycled content. The European Union by 2021 will ban plastic straws, cotton swabs, disposable plastic plates and cutlery. These are the stuff we see in our drainage channels anytime it rains. They block the channels and contribute greatly to flooding the roads with water and waste. According to a report in the standard.co.uk, about 55 countries have introduced a complete ban on single-use plastic carrier bags. The report said: “Bangladesh became the first government to ban the bags as early as 2002. Since then, dozens of countries followed suit, with African nations leading the way including Eritrea (2005), Tanzania (2006), Uganda (2007) and Rwanda (2008). “Since 2010, European countries have also begun to introduce full bans. Italy passed legislation scrapping all plastic bags in 2011, with countries like France and Monaco following in 2016. Macedonia also introduced a full ban on carrier bags in 2013.” Other countries also charge for single-use plastic carrier bags. They include Denmark, Cyprus, Germany and Poland. “Across the pond in the USA, regional bans are in force across the country, including in the state of California, but several districts such as Washington D.C are operating a charge on plastic carrier bags,” said the report. We need to follow the world in reducing waste by making people pay for plastic bags in stores. We have too many plastic bags, which we call nylons in our homes, which we do not need and end up throwing away. Many of them and the disposable plates we use at our uncountable owambes end up in the drainage channels and help flood our streets. Most of our roads are tarred with asphalt, a material whose water-resistant level is abysmally low. We should thus be responsible enough to do all within our capacity to curb flooding. The government must play its part, but ours should also not be neglected. My final take: The time to be environment-friendly is now. At the end of every year, we come up with New Year resolution. I wish to introduce a new month resolution, so as we get into a new month, let our resolution be that we will not contribute to flooding by emptying our plastic wastes into the drains.