 ONDO State Health Commissioner Dr. Wahab Adegbenro is dead. He died on Thursday at the Federal Medical Centre (FMC) in Owo. A government official, who spoke with The Nation on the commissioner’s demise, said the death was not related to COVID-19 pandemic. The official said the government will issue a statement on the development. Adegbenro’s death has caused panic among health officials and members of the Ondo State Task Force on COVID-19. There was sketchy information last night on how the commissioner suddenly died. A top government official said he looked healthy yesterday until news about his death filtered into town. Another source said Adegbenro’s death was shocking because he treated patients at the hospital hours before he slumped and died. Governor Akeredolu and his wife, Betty, have commiserated with the government and people of Ondo State on Adegbenro’s demise. “We are saddened by your sudden departure. You were at the forefront of the state’s battles against the ravaging COVID-19 pandemic. Not only did you signpost commitment and diligence, you were also an inspiration, the real General who paid the supreme price for others to live. “Dr. Adegbenro, our highly committed and dedicated Commissioner for Health and Chairman, Ondo State Inter-ministerial Committee Against COVID-19, as you are committed to mother earth, our hearts bleed.” The state chapter of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) described the commissioner’s death as shocking. A statement by its spokesman Alex Kalajaiye said the late Adegbenro was at the forefront of government’s efforts to curtail the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. The state government has declared today work-free to mourn Adegbenro. It said the deceased was a “General who died healing others”. The late health commissioner was born on June 5, 1955 at Ilara-Mokin in Ifedore Local Government Area of Ondo State where he had his primary education. He later attended Oyemekun Grammar School, Akure between 1962 and 1967, before proceeding to the University of Benin, in Edo State to bag Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery (M.B; B.S). He was a member of the Nigeria Medical Association (NMA); the Association of General and Private Medical Practitioners of Nigeria; Associate member, Royal College of General Practitioners of London; and member of Nigeria Guild of Medical Directors. Also, the Chairman of the Kogi State Security Trust Fund, Siaka Oyibo, is dead. The state government, in a statement on Thursday, said Oyibo, a retired military officer, died from diabetes. He was 69. The statement by Information and Communications Commissioner Kingsley Fanwo, reads: “The Kogi State government wishes to announce the passing on of Siaka Oyibo a few hours ago. Until his death, Oyibo was the Chairman of Kogi State Security Trust Fund. “He was hugely instrumental to the security strides of the Yahaya Bello administration as the Chairman of the Security Trust Fund.”