 Princess Ronke Ademiluyi is one of Nigeria’s shining lights in the area of charity and empowerment – particularly for young ladies in and outside the shores of Nigeria. Well respected for her stand and support for young vulnerable ladies, her unending milk of human kindness distinct her from her peers. The highly cerebral woman currently calls the shots at one of the credible non-profit organizations in Nigeria known as the QMA Initiative. The QMA Initiative is a project of the ‘House of Oduduwa’, the official foundation of the influential first-class monarch, the Ooni of Ife, HIM, Ooni Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi. Supported by a powerful backbone, Ooni Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, Ademiluyi is well known for her advocacy for uplifting women through financial empowerment and non-profit initiative that will be of benefit to all sundry, class strata or tribe. Princess Ronke Ademiluyi is a smart, compassionate, and community-minded woman who has lived her life for the upliftment of the downtrodden. This has been her winning power all the years. QMA Initiative is majorly focusing on mentorship and entrepreneurial skills among young ladies using a snippet of cultural display and pageantry as a means of driving their ideology. The annual QMA cultural and leadership pageant is one of the few pageants that offers a genuine once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for international exposure for its winners. Aside from the financial rewards, which comes with a car gift, the winner also gets to accompany His Imperial Majesty’s royal entourage on foreign trips. Previously, the QMA pageant has produced four winners since inception. Some of the winners include a 2017 maiden edition winner, a dental surgeon who won an all-expense-paid trip to the United Kingdom, (UK). Also on the list of previous winners is another automobile engineer who emerged winner in 2018. And she was rewarded with a trip to Brazil and the United States. In 2019 the winner visited Ghana. A graduate of the English language and she is currently studying Psychology. The QMA Initiative led by Princess Ronke Ademiluyi is also at the forefront in the fight against women trafficking. With the backing of Ooni Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, the initiative set up a fund to help victims of modern-day slavery integrate back into society. It has also intensified its war against rape encouraging victims to speak up and assure them of justice.  