Ekiti State All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain Dr. Wole Oluyede spoke on the crisis rocking the chapter, the grievances against Governor Kayode Fayemi and prospects of reconciliation. Excerpts: WHat is the assessment of the political situation in Ekiti? Ekiti is a very politically intense state. A very small closely-knit society where most people can read and write and are always interested in politics. There is always a great interest in the activities of the government because the government is the only major employer of labour and source of income. The two major parties are also always in very keen contest at all times and there is only a little margin of sway in their level of popularity. At the moment, both parties are very unsettled. Within the APC where I belong, there has been an uneasy calm until now when some of us who are interested stake holders decided that it is time to speak out and try to address the various issues of concerns that the present government has tried to ignore or delusively pretend they don’t exist. Do you regret being a cheiftain of apc and supporter of the governor during the last governorship poll? The answer to both parts of the question is NO. I was raised within the progressive fold and have always been a participant within the fold. I contested for the governorship within the party. Naturally, my interest will be for the party to succeed. After the last primaries despite all the factors that played itself out leading to several of us expressing disappointments at the way the election was conducted, I still offered my total support. This is particularly testy personally and for my supporters as well especially because the sentiments within the South Senatorial District felt it was their turn to produce the governor and in particular, the PDP candidate was from my hometown and ward. We gave our all to that election, financially, materially and especially door-to-door mobilisation with promises of good governance and patronage. Unfortunately, the general populace are now very disappointed. Members of the party have been isolated and ignored. The general populace in my hometown are very angry for lack of government interest or patronage. I just wonder what the story would have been if we did not give our support to the party. What is the bone of contention in Ekiti apc?  Why are the cheiftains going to court against the state party leadership? The present government as constituted is not a good representative of all interests within the party. The government is made up of people with only one sentimental inclination. I personally have no problems with what he  does with his government except that his conduct and performance reflects directly on  the APC. But, I guess if they were smarter, they would have been more inclusive, less arrogant and consulting in order to have more support base and surely better ideas and commitment. The major problem now is that they by their action or inaction in trying to use their access to power to dominate the party structure but unfortunately for them, they are in the minority all over the state. So, we now have a government that is being led by the minority who are arrogant, not inclusive, does not consult others and to cap it all are clueless. With litany of errors being committed all over the place. We now have a situation where the majority of the party is ostracised and isolated. The Majority have become frustrated, angry and disappointed for being excluded from the activities of a government they worked to put in place. To add insult to the injury, due to the failure of this ‘non- listening’ government, we are all (the party) at the danger of not performing well in the next elections Reminiscent of the 2014 elections. The only difference right now is that the governor who we all worked so hard to get into position but is now working hard to destroy the party by trying to punish and distance all ‘his perceived’ enemies. The party in the process is being gradually imploding and he is not interested nor caring enough to worry about what becomes of the Ekiti APC after his tenure. He has demonstrated his lack of interest in running the affairs of the state by spending most of time away from the state- governing by proxy. As far as I see, there are no productive government ventures, no plan to empower the people by wealth creation. It seems as if the policy of this governor is to entrench poverty, erode the confidence and bully everyone into silence. Any contrary opinion is labelled as being “disloyal” or anti-party. There has been a lot of efforts to try to suspend all of who have a contrary opinion to the governor from the party. The present party executives are a product of the dictatorial tendencies of the present governor. No elections were held at any level in any way to put them in place, no caucuses or consultations. Their selection did not conform to our party’s constitution. To move forward therefore, whilst we have no problems with our party members who are the present party executives, we are convinced that we need to have fair constitutional process to select our party officials in order to bring back the unity and purpose required for future elections. Is there any room for reconciliation in the chapter? Yes, we are a party. We have a common interest, which is ‘to win elections, form an inclusive government to serve the interests of the people who got us elected whilst considering the interests of all different persuasions and tendencies within the party.