 The Police have arrested three of their officers and one civilian for allegedly dehumanizing a young woman in Ibadan in  a video that has gone viral  on the social media . Arrested, according to  the Force Public Relations Officer, DCP Frank Mba, are  Assistant Superintendent  Tijani Olatunji ,Inspector  Gboyega and Corporal  Aiyedun Akeem and one Ope Owoeye. Olatunji and Gboyega were arrested on Thursday while the remaining two were arrested on Friday. Women lawyers are rallying round the alleged victim of the police molestation, Towobola, to enable her get justice. The International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA), Oyo State branch, has offered free legal service to the 25 year old lady who was said to have been emotionally tortured  by policemen after arresting  her boyfriend for alleged kidnap. “Investigation is still ongoing after which the Force internal disciplinary procedures will commence for the officers,” Mba said  on Friday while, Police Detectives from the State CID, Panti, Yaba, Lagos  “have established contact with the victim with assurances that justice will not only be done but will be seen to have been manifestly done.” In the 2.20-minute video Towobola is seen handcuffed and lying on the floor as the policemen shout at her to get up. “Stand up, stand up. I go daze you o,” one of them said in pidgin English. “Face me, face me. If you cover your face tire. CCTV go carry you. TV go carry you. All the stations go carry you. Stand up,” the policeman orders her. One of the policemen is also heard asking  Towobola  about her sex life and mocking her. In one instance, he said Towobola would have turned him down were he to toast her but would rather go out with a criminal. The young girl who appeared to be in pain could only  moan. Dressed in white T-shirt, blue jeans and white sneakers, the lady managed to get up and responds in Yoruba, begging the policemen to spare her The International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA), Oyo State branch, has offered free legal service to   Towobola and  is also demanding apology for her. Chairperson, FIDA Oyo, Mrs Deborah Collins said in Ibadan that her interaction with Towobola after the viral video indicated that she was still in fear on account of the  treatment meted to her and the emotional torture of  spreading her ordeal on social media. For now, FIDA is awaiting Towobola’s consent to proceed with the matter. Mrs Collins said: “We are using this medium to call on her that FIDA Oyo is ready to render the legal service to her pro bono. That is the way we have always handled matters in our organization. “We are assuring her to give her all the legal defence that she needs so that we can get justice for her. We know that the video has done a lot of damage to the life of the lady in question. “We talked to her this morning (Thursday) and even the way she was talking, we could sense apprehension. We could feel the fear that she still nurses even by that act that has been melted to her. “We call on her, because this is what we do, we are giving her solidarity, speaking with one voice and condemning the act in totality, that the Nigeria Police should know that where the life is human beings is involved, not even women and children alone, it is important. “Yes, FIDA Oyo State is enjoying the response, solidarity, support and hands of fellowship of the police, but this act that has been done against this young lady, we condemn it in totality and we hope that the top echelon of the Nigeria Police will rise up quickly to this matter. “One, We want to the Police to investigate the matter through the viral videos that have gone online and see how they can bring it down and probably erase it because once it continue to go like that, you can imagine the level of damage it is doing to this lady. “Two, we also insist and we demand that there should be public apology from the police men from this lady. This apology should also go viral just like the assault video has gone viral from the police.” The women lawyers said their attention was “drawn to video clips recorded by men and officers of the Nigerian Police Service during the arrest of an alleged armed robbery/kidnapper and his alleged girlfriend Towobola, a youth corps member who passed out recently and an alumnus of the University of Ibadan. “Having watched the said video, we cannot but express our shock, anger, sorrow, pain and condemnation on the dehumanising way the young lady was treated. “Assuming but not conceding that the man in the clip was an armed robber and or kidnapper as alleged, couldn’t the young lady have been his potential victims? “Why would the police officer interrogate her on her private life bothering on immorality and attempted to link same to the alleged crime? Why would the police feel comfortable in breaching her right to dignity of human person? Why was she given such negative publicity? “Just like every concerned citizens, we are searching for answers to why such treatment were melted out to the young lady. “We call on the Inspector General of Police and the Oyo State Commissioner of Police in whose jurisdiction this illegal act was committed, not to only investigate, but ensure that the perpetrators of this dastardly act are brought to book so as to serve as deterrence to others. “FIDA reiterates her commitment to the promotion and protection of the right of women and children in our society. We undertake to ensure that all legal machineries and defense are set in motion to ensure that Towobola gets justice, her dignity restored and her damages image redeemed.” Prior to the arrest of the suspects, the IG had ordered an investigation into the matter. The Force Headquarters in a statement on the action of the policemen said: ”The Inspector General of Police has ordered discreet investigations into the circumstances surrounding the dehumanizing treatment meted out to a female citizen in the above viral video. “The IGP, while condemning the act, has directed the commencement of comprehensive investigations aimed at unraveling the true identity of the perpetrators with a view to bringing them to justice. Members of the public are hereby assured that any member of the Force found culpable in the incident will be made to face appropriate sanctions.”