The Nigerian Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) is the government body charged with assisting workers in distress, be it as a result of injury or disease, or even in case of death. The news emanating from the fund in recent times are even more distressing than those it is charged with alleviating. Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige, has suspended the managing director of the fund, Mr. Adebayo Somefun, and 10 members of the management committee on allegations of expending funds unapproved by the ministerial tenders’ board. The minister said N4.3 billion was spent on “non-existent training”. Suggesting a breach of procedure, the minister said the training programmes were split into 196 to beat the need for necessary approval from the ministerial tenders board or the Federal Executive Council. In response, though, the board claimed the minister approved the training consultancy projects as they were part of the budgets for 2017, 2018 and 2019. The board said ministerial approval was unnecessary because the amounts came within the limit it could approve for various schemes for 5,000 staff. The minister has obtained the support of the Nigeria Labour Council after the facts were presented to it, leaving only the Nigerian Employers’ Consultative Council (NECA) dissatisfied with the minister’s action. Both NECA and NSITF suspended officials claimed the minister acted ultra vires as the Secretary to the Government of the Federation had written about the need for a minister to obtain presidential approval before the head of a federal agency could be removed. The minister has however replied that he obtained the presidential nod to suspend the men. The matter should not be unduly obfuscated. Workers’ interests remain paramount. At all levels, the culture of taking utmost care with public fund must be inculcated, and those who refuse to conform to the law – the constitution and subsidiary legislations- should not only be relieved of their appointments but made to have their day in court. Predecessors of the board just suspended have their members answering to cases of malfeasance filed by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). In addition to the alleged training scam, billions of Naira are alleged to have been spent by the Somefun board on construction of offices in 14 states without due approval. This is not a matter to sweep under the carpet or handle as a “family affair”. Due investigation should be done and, where some people are found to have connived to expend public fund inappropriately, they should be taken to court. Nigeria’s failure to develop can be directly traced to public servants who circumvent laws, rules and regulations. We are concerned that at a time of adversity and great distress, Nigerian workers are suffering while bureaucrats feed fat on money contributed by them and voted for their welfare by the Federal Government. Many of those covered by the Workmen’s Compensation Act whose responsibilities have been passed to the fund under the Nigerian Social Insurance Trust Fund Act 2010, are unaware. Many have been maimed in factories, others have died prematurely owing to poor safety precautions in the work place. Rather than sit on the billions and expend it on inanities to benefit bureaucrats and their partners in the private sectors in the name of training and construction of gigantic buildings, the board of the NSITF should embark on mass education of workers on their rights. We call for an immediate audit of the financial operations of the board since inception. Where there have been infractions, appropriate sanctions should be applied. Removal is not sufficient punishment if a repeat of the malfeasance is to be avoided.