SIR: I wish to bring to the knowledge of the whole world that Edo State local government pensioners are living in hell on earth. This is because their pension arrears and gratuities are not paid to them and many of them have died while these benefits are pending payment. Gratuities of local government pensioners were last paid in the year 2008. Bear in mind that some of them receive the sum of N2,500 to N3,000 as monthly pension. In a situation where such a person is sick, how does he foot the attendant medical bill in the hospital?  Is such a person not living in hell on earth more so if he has no child who is employed and earn remuneration to take care of him? Unlike state government pensioners, pension arrears of local government retirees in Edo State are never paid. Way back, all the local government councils in Edo State contributed money from June 2018 to June 2019 so that the proceed therefrom would be used to pay their pension arrears with effect from July 2019. Sources claim that the proceed therefrom came to N1.3billion. Yet, up till today the money has not been spent for the purpose it was meant to serve. Meetings were held with the Edo State Commissioner for Local Government and the Edo State Head of Service and assurances were given to the local government pensioners that they would be paid since July 2019 but up till today, despite countless screening exercises, the pensioners have still not been paid. What offence did local government pensioners commit to deserve being treated this way? What has happened to the N1.3billion contributed by the local governments for the exercise? Edo Local Government Service retirees are waiting for the answer to these questions. Whereas our state counterparts are paid their monthly pension either on 25th or 26th of each month, local government pensioners are permanently on “siddon look” mode. Local government pensioners in Edo State are begging our respected governor to give a directive to his commissioner for local government to pay us our pension arrears, otherwise, when our state counterparts would be paid their gratuities, harmonization and the fallout from N30,000 minimum wage, the case of the local government pensioners in Edo State shall be likened to a person who went for snail hunting with a hollow bag. J.E. Ihola Esq. Uromi, Edo State.