 CHAIRMAN, Copyright Society of Nigeria (COSON), Chief Tony Okoroji, has joined many stakeholders in the creative and broadcast industries calling for a revisit of the recently amended 6th edition of the National Broadcasting Code. Chief Okoroji says that the objectives of the code which he believes are to offer more participation of Nigerians in the creation and dissemination of broadcast content are commendable. He has however expressed a belief that the amendments have been crafted in such a manner that they are unworkable and unenforceable and will lead to unending litigation and even significant divestment in the creative space. Speaking on two different public affairs programmes, News Scope with Patrick Doyle and The Morning Show on Arise News, Chief Okoroji said that the drafters of the amended code may have acted ultra vires their legal mandate as they appear to have strayed beyond their limited powers to draft subsidiary legislation and usurped the powers of the National Assembly to make laws. According to Chief Okoroji, some of the provisions may indeed be unconstitutional. He singled out the provisions for exclusivity, advertising and payment of royalties for musical works and sound recordings and said that the provisions in the code may be overreaching as they seem to have ignored the rights of the parties to a contract to agree on their terms. Okoroji further expressed concern that the views of a lot of key stakeholder groups who will be affected by the code were not sought before or during the amendment process which he said took place during the Coronavirus lockdown when the movement of many people was restricted. He complained about the recent penchant of Nigerians to attack Nigerian companies with foreign origins saying that such behaviour may lead to serious divestment in Nigeria and massive loss of jobs held by Nigerians. In the words of Chief Okoroji, “Multichoice DSTV may have originated from South Africa but Multichoice Nigeria is a Nigerian company, the Chairman of the company, Mr. Dewumi Ogunsanya, is a Nigerian, the CEO, Mr. John Ugbe is a Nigerian. Thousands of Nigerians make their living through Multichoice. What do we gain by hounding the company?” Continued Chief Okoroji, “Alhaji Aliko Dangote is presently investing in many countries across the African continent and providing jobs in these nations. How will Nigerians feel if those investments are threatened simply because the initial promoter of the business is a Nigerian?”