Can Lagos ever get the intractable traffic gridlock behind it? Yes, say experts. They are canvassing new approaches that can bring relief to commuters and motorists in the nation’s economic capital, writes ADEYINKA ADERIBIGBE THERE seems to be no end to the gridlock on Lagos roads. Despite its economy not being fully optimised (the economy opened at just 50 per cent), and temporary adjustments to travels, which have seen various traders on the roads or opening their shops/offices at different days of the week, as a result of the devastating impact of COVID-19 and the need to contain community transmission of the deadly virus, “the roads,” in the words of Mr. Olajide Adeyemo, a business executive, with office in Ikeja, “have been extremely busy and a major nightmare to road users and residents”. An On Air Personality last week during a local programme on Traffic Radio jocularly asked why residents have stayed glued to Lagos, insisting they would rather die there, than leave or live without. From its rather “humble” population that was in the hundreds of thousands in the early ‘50s up to mid ‘80s, Lagos’ population grew exponentially, with experts insisting the state grows at about six per cent per year, with no fewer than 600 new migrants entering the state from its land borders daily. From the turn of the new millennium and a population of 20 million, which puts the state as Africa’s first megacity, up till date, with a population, which the state’s Bureau of Statistics (NBS) in 2018 put at 26 million, Lagos has continued to pose a real challenge with successive administrations concentrating on initiatives that could transit the state into a smart city, driven by creative technology and innovative solutions. But how can a state so hugely blessed anchor only on one mode of transportation? That has been the maze, round which successive administrations continue a futile circle. For much of its 53 years, Lagos has relied almost exclusively on road mode of transportation, and as the vehicular density continued to soar, so did the government enthrone various initiatives aimed at controlling traffic and ensuring sanity on the roads. From the odd and even number regime, to banning of some vehicles, to colour segregation on some routes, the state had tried various initiatives. ‘However, the more it tried, the more the roads get more congested. A major breakthrough (so it seemed to be), which could have changed the narrative – the metroline project, which was aborted in 1984, further dug the grave of despair on the roads, as the government diverted attention from metroline to Mass Transit system, hoping to enthrone a regime of public transportation to replace the largely unregulated alternative populated by private operators. Yet, even as the state grapples with this challenge, its over 2500kms of waterways contribute less than one per cent to the traffic count, while the only player in its rail and air travel modes continue to be the national government. This, the Babajide Sanwo-Olu-led administration said it was determined to change, with its THEMES agenda that gave focus to transportation and traffic control. To further deepen the narratives on the intractable traffic chaos in the state, the United States Consulate-General last Tuesday, in Lagos, hosted a webinar themed: “The never-ending story of traffic congestion in Lagos: What can be done? Will it be done?” This was with the aim of helping to find solutions to what seem to be spiralling gradually out of the government’s control. Director of Public Works in Minneapolis, Minnesota, United States, Ms. Robin Hutcheson, suggested that the government revisit its transportation action plan, to ease the traffic congestion. Indeed, from 2002, the state through its special purpose vehicle, Lagos State Metropolitan Transportation Authority (LAMATA), had developed and had been implementing a Lagos Urban Transportation Programme (LUTP), under a broader Lagos State Transportation Master Plan (LSTMP), which set out to expand the state’s infrastructure base, and provide alternative and holistic public sector-driven template for transportation. In her keynote paper, Hutcheson explained that traffic congestion, principally due to automobile traffic, could take a huge toll on the citizen’s mental and physical health. Hutcheson, also the president of the Board of Directors for the National Association of Transportation Officials in the United States, said the model transportation action plan includes options, such as sidewalks, bike lanes, ferries, buses, and light rail. She described how improvements in mass transportation could contribute to economic growth, a healthier environment, and improved customer satisfaction. According to Hutcheson, cities with 21st century ambitions must provide residents with safe, accessible, efficient, and equitable transportation choices. Publisher of Business Day Mr. Frank Aigbogun, who participated in the webinar, shared gripping experiences with the negative consequences of the perpetual traffic challenges in Lagos. Aigbogun, for instance, was forced to abandon his home at Apapa, a scenic environment he preferred to highbrow location on Lagos Island, to avoid the nightmare that moving about has become at Apapa where he still has his office. The other speakers reinforced the contention that the development and maintenance of viable transportation solutions are required in a megacity that serves as the nation’s economic hub. Earlier in her welcome remarks, U.S. Consul-General Claire Pierangelo said the embassy thought it could contribute to conversations aimed at generating solutions that would lead to reducing what she described as chronic traffic congestion in Lagos while facilitating economic growth and development. “We believe this topic of Lagos traffic is very important due to its impact on economic development and daily quality of life. Lagos is the economic capital of Nigeria and it is important that we tackle the transportation and traffic difficulties,” Pierangelo said. The online programme brought together state transportation and traffic management officials, business and civic leaders, diplomats, members of the academia and journalists. Commending the initiative, Mr. Hafiz Toriola, director in the Ministry of Transportation, said it was noteworthy that the LSTMP contained alternate modes which Hutcheson’s paper highlighted. Toriola said the Sanwo-Olu-led administration was working on some of the alternative modes of transportation and expanding the road networks, adding that, soon, traffic congestion/gridlock would be a thing of the past in the state. Other participants included Professor of Transport Management at the Federal University of Technology, Owerri, Dr. Innocent Ogwude, and Managing Director, XFA Advisory, Ms. Tola Odeyemi.