The Minister of Niger-Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, has exonerated the Chairman, House Committee on the NDDC, House of Representatives, Hon. Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo and other members of the National Assembly from allegations of getting contracts from the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). Senator Akapabio made the clarification on Monday during the probe by Committee into the allegations of financial malfeasance against members of Interim Management Committee (IMC) of the NDDC. It was earlier alleged by Senator Akpabio during the House Committee’s sitting that Hon. Tunji-Ojo and other members of the National Assembly were awarded most contracts of NDDC. However, this claim was later retracted by Senator Akpabio when confronted with the fact that Tunji-Ojo was only sworn in as member of National Assembly in June, 2019 and later became the House Committee Chairman on NDDC in September, 2019. Akpabio said, “I only said that NDDC had awarded a contract for the place of Hon. Tunji-Ojo. I don’t think NDDC has given a contract directly to Hon. Tunji-Ojo. Before you can day that, you must be sure that such contract was awarded to the company of Hon. Tunji-Ojo”. Meanwhile, the Chairman of House of Representatives Committee on NDDC, Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo had earlier recused himself presiding over the probe panel in a bid to demonstrate to Nigerians that he was not on a mission of vengeance and to allay the fears of witch hunt, unfair hearing and biased investigations. However, a mild drama had earlier ensued at the National Assembly when the Acting Managing Director of NDDC, Prof. Kemebradikumo Pondei slumped while being grilled by members of the House Committee on NDDC. It took the intervention of security details to revive Prof. Pondei before he was subseqyently moved to the National Assembly hospital for medical attention. However, a Research Director of a nongovernmental agency known as ACT, Kolawole Johnson, also testified before the House Committee. He revealed that additional illegal payments that amounted to over N6billion had been made by members of the Interim Management Committee of the NDDC from June 1 to July 17, 2020. He also revealed that chunk of the illegal payments were made by IMC of NDDC even after the House Committee had commenced its investigation into the illegal spending.