President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday requested the Senate to screen and confirm 42 non-career and one career ambassadors. The Nation learnt that the President retained 11 serving non-career ambassadors and recalled 35 of them. President Buhari’s request letter was read on the floor at plenary by Senate President Ahmad Lawan. Among the nominees are two frontline journalists Debo Adesina (Oyo) and Oma Djebah (Delta) as well as a former Minister of State for Defence, Ademola Seriki (Lagos) and Mr. Dare Sunday Awoniyi (Kogi). The President also urged the Upper Chamber to confirm Mr. Sulyman Sani as a career ambassador representing the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Sulyman’s nomination may not be unconnected with the protest by Senator Philip Aduda (FCT) that the territory was neglected in the earlier list of career ambassadors sent to the Senate for confirmation. Following the reading of President Buhari’s letter, Aduda, raising a point of order, thanked Lawan for helping to ensure that the FCT was not neglected in the appointment of the career ambassadors. He averred that the Senate President would also intervene to ensure that the FCT is represented in the appointment of non-career ambassadors. Other non-career ambassadors-designate are: Umar Suleiman (Adamawa), L. S. Mandama (Adamawa), Oboro Effiong Akpabio (Akwa Ibom), Chief Elijah Onyeagba (Anambra), Abubakar D. Ibrahim Siyi (Bauchi), Philip K. Ikurusi (Bayelsa), Tarzoor Terhemen (Benue), Paul Ogba Adikwu (Benue), Al-Bashir Ibrahim Al-Hassan (Borno), Brig.-Gen. Bwala Yusuf Bukar (Borno) and Prof. Monique Ekpong (Cross River). Also on the list are:  Ominyi N. Eze (Ebonyi), Yamah Mohammed Musa (Edo), Maj.-Gen. C. O. Ugwu (Enugu), Dr. Hajara I. Salim (Gombe), Obiezu Ijeoma Chinyerem (Imo), Ali M. Magashi (Jigawa), Prof. M. A. Makarfi (Kaduna), Hamisu Umar Takalmawa (Kano), Jazuli Imam Galandanci (Kano), Amina Ado Kurawa (Kano), Ambassador Yahaya Lawal (Katsina), Ibrahim Kayode Laaro (Kwara) and Abioye Bello (Kwara). The President also nominated Zara Maazu Umar (Kwara), Henry John Omaku (Nasarawa), Chief Sarafa Tunji Isola (Ogun), Mrs. Nimi Akinkugbe (Ondo), Adejare Bello (Osun), Adeshina Alege (Oyo), Ms. Folakemi Akinyele (Oyo), Shehu Abdullahi Yibaikwal (Plateau), Maureen Tamuno (Rivers), Faruk Yabo (Sokoto), Adamu M. Hassan (Taraba), Alhaji Yusuf Mohammed (Yobe) and Abubakar Moriki (Zamfara) as non-career Ambassadors-designate. President Buhari, in a letter titled “Appointment of non-career Ambassadors-Designate” said: “In accordance with Section 171 (1),(2)(c) and subsection (4) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, as amended, I have the honour to forward for confirmation by the Senate, the under listed 41 names of nominees as non-career ambassadors-designate.” The ambassadors retained by the President are: Dr. Uzoma Emenike (Ireland), Prof. Tijjani Muhammad Bande (Permanent Representative to the UN), Yusuf Tuggar (Germany), Dr. Eniola Irele (France), Adeyinka O. Asekun (Canada), Maj.-Gen. Chris Eze (India), Dr. Eniola Ajayi (Hungary), Joseph Olusola (Togo), Uyagwe Igbe (Mozambique), Baba Madugu (Switzerland) and Muhammadu Rimi Barbade (United Arab Emirates). It was learnt that the President reviewed their performance and decided to retain them for distinguishing themselves in the service of the country.