Covid-19 pandemic has put pressure on sales as a result of reduced businesses with an upsurge in claims arising from life, health, travel and business interruption insurance, among others. Furthermore, the global economic slowdown due to the pandemic had driven interest rates even lower, market volatility and increasing credit risk exposures leading to more credit insurance claims. These impacts are likely to affect the solvency position of many insurers which would require regulatory scrutiny with appropriate solvency tests to ensure insurers can withstand the immediate and knock-on impacts of the covid-19. These were the findings of an Actuarial Scientist and Chartered Insurer, Dr Pius Apere. Apere, who is the Chairman /CEO Achor Actuarial Services Limited, said the impact of Covid-19 has, no doubt,  affected the implementation of the insurance industry recapitalisation guidelines; hence the recent extension of the recapitalisation deadline to September 30, 2021. He said the extension would allow insurers space to review their strategic initiatives and plans to meet the deadline. In a paper entitled, “Recapitalisation of Nigerian Insurance Industry in Covid-19 Pandemic Era”, Apere highlighted some critical lifestyle changes, possible challenges and opportunities, which could arise from recapitalisation and/or covid-19 pandemic that would affect the industry. He stated that the recapitalisation had been designed to provide the required capital base to address some critical challenges facing the industry over the decades to reform the sector for sustainable growth and development. He maintained that the key critical challenges to address post- recapitalisation are the inability to pay genuine claims, lack of innovation in product development, lack of consumer education and awareness, poor digitalisation (ICT) of insurance operations, inability to underwrite bigger risks, low market penetration, inadequate human capital development, among others. He stressed that the challenges from covid-19 had impacted on the recapitalisation, leading to its extension of the deadline by the regulator. Therefore, the industry stakeholders were expected to be prepared to manage the challenges effectively to achieve the benefits of the recapitalisation, he added.