It  is indeed an irony of fate   and religious  pedigree that whilst  a  Communist  and atheistic  nation like Russia is  including  God  as the Savior  of Russia in its  new  constitution approved massively in a referendum this week , the US    which  has  ‘ In  God  We  Trust ‘   as its motto   is embroiled in racial  protests and has a president brandishing the bible  and  calling Black  Lives Matter protests in the US  an   hate issue  .It  is equally amazing that  the EU     in which member  states closed their borders  against each other   at  the so called peak  of a raging  pandemic  ,  has   included  Nigeria   in the list   of nations whose  citizens  will  not be allowed to enter Europe  when it  opens its borders  even  though Nigeria has less deaths from the virus  than any member  nation of the same  EU. I  look  at these two   issues  with  contrasting components in the light of today’s topic . I  take a look at religion from  the historical  perspective  in both  Russia and the US   as well  as   the  style     of  the  two  leaders at the helm of  affairs in both nations today . I    examine   the sacrifices Nigerian  leaders ,  people and nation  have made in  locking down their  economy  and assert  that the EU  has  an ulterior   motive in putting Nigeria ,  which has very  low pandemic  deaths ,  in the same category  of  nations banned from entering the EU.This  is    because  Nigeria has far less deaths  than the US which has the highest  fatalities   from the pandemic globally. We  go back  to  Russia where a constitutional  reform  has literally  made  President Vladimir  Putin  a president  for  life as it has allowed  him to claim two more six year terms if his present tenure expires in 2024 .  Which  means he can be president till  2036  . Of  course the western media  has condemned  the move as un democratic  and dictatorial    which  is alright  to me as that is their opinion . But  comparisons may  be odious  but they  are pertinent  and this is why the irony   I mentioned earlier is apposite .   The new  Russian   constitution approves  a ban on same sex  marriage by insisting  that  marriage is between a man and a woman and  specifically  cites Russia’s ancestral  ‘  faith in God ‘ .   Nigeria   already   has similar  law    even   though  our own  motto  is Unity  in Diversity   and Nigeria   is a secular  state constitutionally      but  not  in  practice . Until    this pandemic  led to closure  of Churches and Mosques  one could easily say   that  Nigerians were  the most  religious    set   of  citizens you  could    see  in any part   of the world . It  will    be   interesting    to see  how the religion  fervor and  momentum  will   be  .   For  now in terms of religion    in Nigeria    the   fear  of the pandemic is the beginning of wisdom   with closed   churches and mosques    all   over the nation . This   new   look   Russia  , was   the same   Russia    that  in   1917    had  the  bloody  Bolshevik  Revolution that made it an atheist   nation. That   was     when  it killed the Czar  and the likes of Lenin , Stalin, Khruschev , Brezhnev , Cherchenko    Kosygin   and so on have ruled this giant communist  state till  Gorbachev came and  presided over the liquidation of the USSR in  1991  paving way for its dissolution into  15 component  states as independent sovereign nations . This  new constitution   passed     in a referendum    this week  has the full  backing of the Russian Orthodox Church  which  was banned under the  Communist Soviet Union for decades . Now  Russia has accommodated religion and is united . Whereas the US which somewhat   won the Cold War  when the USSR collapsed and America became the sole   world   super  power cannot for  now boast the same stability and unity that Putin  has brought  to his  nation , whose citizens support  him   mostly   for standing up to America .  Anyway ,  the US media portray their president as   a  Putin lackey  and have ridiculed his legitimacy  for  being    helped  into  office  by   Putin  in the 2016 US Presidential  election . More  importantly  the Americans do  not see marriage as between a man and a woman like in Putin’s new Russia and  anyone who  talks  against  gays in  the US  is branded as making hate  speech . Which  somewhat accounts for the ridiculous and nasty categorization of Black  Lives Matter by  an American    president  brandishing the bible   as it were  in a Godless  way   against     anti   racist    protesters and  making a mockery  of the death of  George Floyd who died from the assault  of a white policeman  who  placed his  knee    on his  neck  till  he died muttering’ I can’t  breathe ‘   . To  any  objective  outsider and student of democracy and political stability ,  Putin’s Russia  seem  immensely like  an  organized state  with more social  and political  equilibrium than the present Trump America with  its’ law and order  rule of law  ‘  mantra   and scant regard  for public opinion on the removal of the statues of historical   figures with slave   owners’  background . That sadly is how far   down   the  US in  the Trump   era  has  nosedived  morally . It    however  reached  the nadir  of  nastiness and intolerance with  the categorization of Black Lives Matter as hate  speech  by no less a person than the US president . That  really  is    a  political  disaster of monumental  proportion .But  then   that is  Trumps’  America . With  regard  to the EU closing its  borders on Nigerians it  is obvious the reason cannot   be the issue of    fear   of     contagion  or  pandemic spread . As  at  this week there were 23,298 pandemic  cases in Nigeria and 554  deaths .  The  US  had over 2.5 m  cases and 127, 361  deaths  .  So  where is the basis of lumping Nigeria with the US and  punishing Nigeria wrongly on this ? The EU  should  rethink this urgently . I  think  the real  reason is to curtail illegal  migration from Nigerians claiming falsely  they  were being persecuted for being Christians because  of Boko  Haram and those claiming they  are fleeing persecution for being gays because of Nigeria’s anti -gay  laws . But  the EU  is certainly   trying to kill  two  birds with  one stone because  it has voted money  that it    is using to  fly not only  Nigerians but other Illegal  African  migrants from EU nations back  to their  nations of origin . Yet  Nigeria  has done  incalculable  damage to its economy in locking it  down  for  some time before  relaxing its lockdown  orders .  But   the    low number   of deaths in Nigeria  compared   with   the  EU    showed    we have been   better   managers   of this pandemic     than  the EU   nations locking us out. That   is  pure   statistics.  Which  is quite commendable and  which should  be  monitored and  be responsive  to the threats and the number  of deaths which is quite paltry  compared to nations in the EU and especially the US . We  accept  the pandemic  is real but we  must  manage public  health in this pandemic period  such that we have an economy to return to   in order     look after our teeming masses ,  post  pandemic. Once again – From the fury  of this raging pandemic Good Lord Deliver Nigeria. 