SIR: Over the years, food security has been the leitmotif of our national development agenda. However, the huge latent capacity of the sector in effectuating food security agenda remains largely untapped ostensibly due to myriad of challenges. And, chief among the contemporary issues stoking the spectre of food crises is the intractable insecurity that has placed its knees firmly on the neck of the country. Conflicts have been variously described as the enemy of food security. Already, the perennial farmers-herders’ conflict has continued to take toll on lives and properties and the spate of kidnappings reaching an epidemic proportion. Sadly, there’s no end in sight despite the stupendous resources invested by government in squashing the seeming interminable Boko Haram insurgency in the Northeast. The fallout has also been the mindless destruction of lives, properties, infrastructures, crops and livestock at an almost industrial scale with the displacement of hordes of people triggering humanitarian crisis that’s reminiscent of the civil war. The experiences of the untold number of victims has been nothing but heartrending. More than 1.8 million are reported to be displaced across Adamawa, Borno and Yobe states. Today, the Northwest has become a seething cauldron of another strand of violence spreading apace like conflagration, sweeping across Zamfara, Sokoto, Kaduna and Niger states. About 2.1 million people living in these states have been exposed to insecurities from activities of bandits. The modus operandi encompasses kidnapping, cattle rustling and armed robbery. Their attacks have been deadly. Food security, which F.A.O described as “when all people at all times have physical, social and economic access to sufficient, safe and nutritious food that meets their dietary needs and food preferences for an active and healthy life,” is already in harm’s way. The crises have practically asphyxiated agricultural production on which large swathe of the affected communities rely for their livelihoods which has further compounded rural poverty. The smallholder farmers which are the backbone of the country’s food needs have been rendered well and truly vulnerable by the deteriorating security situation. The climate of fear and anxiety has significantly contributed to the downward spiral of farming activities. The crises have restrained households from engaging in normal livelihood activities, restricting access to market and other income activities. As a result, significant population continue to face difficulties in meeting their basic food needs. By and large, food production has been severely stifled leading to massive displacement of labour and a diminution in food supply with the disruption of the supply and the distribution of inputs and outputs creating price shocks as a consequence. The drive toward weaning the country off dependence on oil and reining in on food imports is significantly imperilled. Hunger and malnutrition are on a steep climb with grave concern for the Sustainable Development Goal on zero hunger which is a pledge to end hunger, achieve food security, improve nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture. Nigeria still remains largely food insecure as shown in the 2019 Global Food Security Index where it is placed 94 out of 113 countries. Also, it featured on the list of 10 countries with the worst food crises (by number of people) alongside countries like Yemen, Afghanistan, Venezuela South Sudan, Syria, Haiti, Sudan and Democratic Republic of Congo. Furthermore, Cadre Harmonise analysis put the number of acutely food insecure people during the lean season (June-August) at about seven million which is over 40% increase from the same period last year. Also, 16 northern states and F.C.T have been identified to face food and nutrition crisis. The states are Borno, Adamawa, Yobe, Benue, Gombe, Taraba, Jigawa, Kano, Bauchi Plateau, Kaduna Kebbi, Sokoto, Zamfara and Niger. The crises have basically hampered food availability, stability, accessibility and utilization which are variables that define household food security. It will be hard to stimulate agricultural growth owing to the prevailing security challenges. With a population growth forecast of three percent per year; there’s need to attenuate the impact of the crises or eliminate the risk to agriculture completely. Peace and stability are sine qua non for access to food which is a cornerstone of food security. abachi007@yahoo.com