The Chief of Defence Staff and Chairman of Operation Safe Corridor, General Abayomi Olonisakin yesterday  warned  members of  the terror sect Boko Haram and the Islamic State of West Africa (ISWAP)  to lay down their arms and embrace peace in their own interest. Olonisakin ,speaking at  the graduation of 601 BH/ISWAP ex-combatants in Gombe, said the armed forces and other security agencies operating in the North East were ready to provide safe passage for the insurgents to lay down their arms. The CDS who was represented at the ceremony by the Director of Education, Defence Headquarters, Rear Admiral V C Okeke, said the de-radicalization scheme was working well, “complementing other efforts of the Federal government to restore peace in the North East. “As these clients are being reintegrated, let me seize this opportunity to advise members of Boko Haram and Islamic State of West Africa Province, ISWAP, still lurking around in the bushes to lay down their arms, embrace peace and join the re-radicalization, rehabilitation and reintegration programme in their own interest,” he said. He described Saturday’s graduation of the 601 ex-terrorists as the largest since the commencement of  Operation Safe Corridor in 2016. His words:”. Since the commencement of Operation Safe Corridor in 2016, a total of 914 clients have undergone the de-radicalization, rehabilitation and reintegration programme., among which 280, including two Chadians have been successfully transferred to their nationals and state authorities for reintegration. “ These  clients have been fully reintegrated and wholly accepted by their host communities. Since 2017 when the first set of 29 graduated and reintegrated, there has been no negative report concerning any of them. Today the largest set of 601 are graduating for reintegration to their nation and state.” The CDS said fund and starter packs would  be provided for the repentant Boko Haram ex-combatants to start life afresh  after 24 weeks of training. Of the 601 graduates 592 are Nigerians from 10 states of the federation while 14  are nationals of Cameroon, Chad and Niger. Three of the ex-terrorists had died of health complications while one was referred for further medical treatment at the Neuro-psychiatric Hospital in Maiduguri.