Coronation Research is publishing  its report on investment to deepen investors understanding of opportunities in the economy. The report, entitled: ‘Navigating the Capital Market: the Investor’s Dilemma’, studied the investment scene over  10 years and finds how Nigerians have managed to preserve their capital over the long term. Some of the issues include why it has been easy to beat inflation over the last 10-years by buying Federal Government’s Treasury Bills. However, with the crash in interest rates in the first half of the year, this era has ended. By contrast, equity market returns have not preserved capital for investors over the long term, even when adding back the generous dividends paid to investors. By looking at the internal profitability of stock exchange-listed companies, ‘Navigating the Capital Market’ identifies which stocks are the ones most likely to generate good returns for their owners, and back-tests the results. Head of Research, Coronation Asset Management,   Guy Czartoryski, said investors are faced with difficult choices as interest rates have crashed. “The alternatives are either to simply wait for rates to rise again in future, or to accept more risk to increase returns. But, to do that, they need to increase their understanding of risk,” he said. Continuing, he said navigating the capital market takes a new approach to setting investment return benchmarks. Instead of targeting inflation, which is the conventional benchmark, it recommends that investors should aim to beat the effects of naira devaluation against the US dollar, and obtain the risk-free return they would have in US dollars. This suggests that they should ask for Naira risk-free fixed-income (or Treasury bill) return of 14.7 per cent per annum over the long term. And, when it comes to equities, Coronation Research calculates that investors should demand a return of 20.5 per cent per year. These are high benchmarks, but they show what is necessary to preserve the value of investors’ hard-earned money. Coronation Research’s investor feedback shows that  investors have two concerns: One, inflation. The second is not to lose money in investment schemes. And with fixed-income and bank deposit rates at record lows, and far below the rate of inflation at 12.4 per cent, investors are being tempted to take risks again, he added. Yet the priority, he said, is for them to understand what the risks are, and how they can be managed, adding: ‘Navigating the Capital Market’ is their guide to these challenging times.