All Progressives Congress(APC) governorship aspirant in Ondo, Chief Olayide Adelami, on Wednesday said the ruling party will retain the state despite the defection of Deputy Governor, Agboola Ajayi to the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The former Deputy Clerk of National Assembly said the defection of the deputy governor cannot affect the political fortune of the ruling party at the polls in October 10. Adelami, who stated this while answering questions from newsmen shortly after submitting his expression of interest and nomination forms at the party Secretariat in Abuja, said the party members were united in sending the deputy governor away, adding that ACP remains the party to beat in Ondo State. Asked if the party was not threatened by the exit of the Deputy Governor, Adelami said: “There is no threat at all because what would have been threat are those aggrieved APC members, they are coming together now. What brought about disunity among them, they are united in sending him (Agboola) away and that has brought together about 80 per cent of APC population in Ondo state.” Adelami, who reitterated his choice of direct mode of primary election for the primary to pick the party’s flag bearer on July 20 said: “The popular opinion is a direct primary. I normally refer to it as election before election, nobody will be disenchanted, everybody will be given opportunity to express themselves”. Highlighting his plans for the state, the Owo- born technocrat- turned- politician said: “Ondo state is yearning for something new, something novel. If you look at the history of Ondo state you will find out this is not the first time. Remember Baba Ajasin who was a renowned teacher and a technocrat, Baba Adefarati, a renowned teacher and a technocrat, they all performed well. “Like I said, the first thing is to come to Ondo state to maintain party cohesion. Number two, the numerous disenchanted, near hopeless youths roaming the streets. We have so many of them in Ondo state who have been carrying their certificates for the past five, six years looking for job that is not there. I’m coming to Ondo state to engage our teeming youths. They must work, they are the asset of Ondo state and I value them so much. They are going to take priority in the projects I’m going to execute in Ondo state. “Like I have been saying, my entry into contest is for real and the mission is defined to come and rescue Ondo state from maladministration. You all know that the party is disenchanted. There are a lot of aggrieved members of APC, about of 80% of them. My mission is to come and build the party, maintain party cohesion and that is what I know to do best. I have managed over the years human resources and financial resources and coming to Ondo state is not new I am coming to do what I know how to do best”.