 The Oniru of Iru Kingdom, Oba Gbolahan Lawal, has reiterated his stance against any form of violence, lawlessness and recourse to self-help. Oba Lawal’s stance which was contained in a statement issued from his media office yesterday following an incident which occurred within the Oniru Estate neighbourhood close to Millennium Estate Gates. It culminated in an altercation between some officials of the Oniru’s Palace and a group. According to the statement, the team of palace officials led by one Prince Murisiku Ajasa was allegedly accosted by the group and some other persons while the palace officials were on a routine inspection to supervise work being done by an inventory and enumeration group from the palace. In the ensuing heated argument, it was alleged that the group led by a prince slapped the leader of the palace officials who retaliated before the Police intervened.  “The Oniru of Iruland HRM Oba Abdul Wasiu Omogbolahan Lawal has been formally notified of this incident, and he has immediately ordered an investigation into both the incident and the conduct of the Palace officials. “His Majesty has repeatedly stated that he would not tolerate or condone any acts of violence, lawlessness and recourse to self-help,” the statement said. The statement said the Oniru has ordered the suspension of the officers involved in the incident pending further investigation by the Divisional Police Officer of Area J. “Notwithstanding the provocative affront to the authority of the Oniru and desecration of tradition, the Oniru warned Palace officials to remain emotionally stable in the discharge of their duties, even in the face of provocation. “In addition, he sees no reason or excuse for violence in Iru Land. Consequently, Kabiyesi has directed the Palace Administrator to immediately suspend the official involved in the incident pending a full investigation. “His Majesty enjoins all parties to desist from all forms of violence and uphold peace, law and order,” the statement added. The Oniru said the law should run its full course despite the palace administrative actions already taken.