Chief Olusola Oke, the Unity Forum governorship aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC), is currently absent at the ongoing peace parley of all the governorship aspirants of the party. Also absent at the meeting is Jimi Odimayo and Olayide Adelami. The meeting which is being held at the Heritage Hotel in Akure and presided over by Niger State Governor, Abubakar Sani Bello, is to see how the party could be united after the primary scheduled to hold next Monday. Spokesman for Chief Oke, Rotimi Ogunleye, said his boss was on a campaign tour of local government areas to woo party members for votes. A total of 12 aspirants were cleared to contest at the APC primary. Aspirants present at the ongoing meeting were Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, Mrs. Jumoke Anifowoshe, Engr. Ifeoluwa Oyedele, Ambassador Olusola Iji, Bukola Adetula amongst others. Party sources said some aspirants have commenced moves to be picked as running mate to Governor Akeredolu after the party primary. It was gathered that some members of the Unity Forum were opposed to moves by some aspirants in the forum to be picked as Akeredolu’s running mate. A source said Governor Akeredolu is under pressure to conceding the deputy governorship slot to the Unity Forum According to the source, “From Tuesday, we knew where they were going. The governors have made it so ear that they want one of their own, Akeredolu to return as governor. “But unlike previously when some openings were possible in terms of other platforms, it is difficult because making any move to defect to another party means taking a big risk since this is an off season election. “I know of course that our man, Oke, had cleverly sent someone to him but from all indications, the governor appears battle ready for an all out fight without giving room for concessions in any form. “I’m also aware that our patron, Senator Borofice has been mulling the idea of presenting Jimi Odimayo as possible running mate but it not our collective idea so it wont fly. “The fact that the senstor endorsed Jimi before now has even rubbished the idea because if he is actually our leader, he ought not to have single handedly, endorsed Jimi against our popular choice, Oke. “So for him to go ahead and make proposals without c0nsulting others to work nocturnally for Jimi to run with Aketi means nothing good to us; it is unacceptable,” he said.