 Stakeholders of the All Progressives Congress in Akoko, Ondo State have backed the governorship aspiration of Chief Olayide Adelami, a former deputy clerk of the National Assembly. The APC leaders, Alex Omoniyi, Funke Ogunode, Segun Afolabi, Prince Adeusi Onirun, Kehinde Ibitoye, among others, who made their decision known at a meeting in Ikare-Akoko, said Adelami is a man of integrity, based on his track record at the National Assembly. They said he has been empowering widows in the state for the past 18 years. Speaking on behalf of Akoko APC leaders, Omoniyi described Adelami as a humble, generous and experienced administrator. “Adelami is straightforward and accommodating. He has a clean record and as such we have decided to support him,” he said. Adelami accused Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of tarnishing the image of Owo by failing Ondo State people. He said he joined the governorship race to enable him redeem Owo’s image and provide good governance for the citizens. Adelami said he left a good name as his legacy in the National Assembly and promised to use his experience and connection to develop Ondo State. He promised to run open system governance where transparency would be his watchword. Adelami said: “I have been helping people and providing infrastructure. In Owo, I have empowered a lot of widows, dug boreholes, provided transformers and street lights. I will replicate these and do more in the whole of Ondo State if I become the governor. “My government will be people-driven. I will carry the unions along, as it will be a joint government. “Local government will get financial autonomy so that communities can be developed. “As the Federal Government shares allocations monthly to states and local governments, I will ensure the local governments’ funds get to them.  Some people think this will be difficult, but I will cross the bridge when I get there. I know that if all the 18 local governments are developing, then poverty will reduce.” “The youth are full of energy, resources, innovation and ideas. I will not allow these resources to die with them. If I become governor, I will go round the state to hold town hall meetings with youths, brainstorm with them and empower them, to lift them out of poverty. We will empower them in I.C.T, commerce, technical training and agriculture so that they can be self- sufficient,” he added. Adelami said the inability of Governor Akeredolu to provide leadership was responsible for the defection of his deputy, Agboola Ajayi, to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He feared that some members of the state executive council might soon leave Akeredolu’s administration due to his highhandedness. Reacting to questions yesterday in Abuja during an interactive session with reporters, Adelami said Akeredolu should be blamed for the exit of his deputy from the party, adding that the governor had lost a stabilisation figure in his administration. “Governor Akeredolu failed to provide the needed and necessary leadership when crisis arose in the APC, before the deputy governor left the party. Ajayi’s sudden exit from the party showed Akeredolu’s weakness in managing people. “The governor is not people-oriented. This explains why the majority of aggrieved members of APC in Ondo State are looking for a replacement,” he added. Adelami was, however, optimistic that the exit of Ajayi would not affect APC’s fortune in the coming election.