The National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN) has blamed the orchestrated media campaign against ongoing anti-corruption fight by President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration on some politicians. The National President of the Council, Comrade Solomon Adodo, told reporters in Abuja said the sponsors of the media attacks are out to rubbish the determination of the President to rid the country of systemic corruption. Adodo said most of the sponsored media campaigns are “out right lies; some are concoctions and a hotchpotch of delibrated falsehood, dirty imaginations and misdirected vengeful attacks.” According to the youth leader: “These people not only aim to rubbish the determination of President Muhammadu Buhari to rid the country of systemic corruption but also to destabilise his government so that an eventual takeover is guaranteed. “They began by insinuating that if Magu is guilty of corruption, it means the President has altogether lost it. In fact, they claim that by the government allowing him to stay this long, it means the anti-corruption fight is a charade. But this notion is laughable, because it is the same government of Buhari that is probing him now”. The youth council said it owes the country a patriotic duty to defend those patriotically on the side of a good leader like Buhari. The council also commended what it called the patriotic stand of the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, in the on-going fight against corruption despite various media attacks targeted at maligning his personality. “Another group has focused their attention on the Star Chief Law Officer of Federation, the Attorney General and Minister for Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN. ”Their antics are infantile, comical and full of delusions that one is forced to pity them. You may have seen a building which they claim that Mr. Malami built for his son. And you may have read of other properties which they unsuccessfully tried to link him to. These have all been found to be nothing other than merchandise in falsehood,” he said. The council challenged those questioning the success of Buhari in the anti-corruption fight, stressing “what is happening with Magu is a testimony to the fact that the fight is on a good course. Some people who the President trusted with sensitive assignments may sabotage him. But none will escape when found. “That is what the Anti-corruption crusade and policy is all about. We thank Mr. President for remaining very committed to this fight. It is a fight to save our future as youths, and we deeply appreciate it.”