 Ahead of the screening of the 12 aspirants for Ondo State governorship primary of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), an aspirant, Dr. Nathaniel Olumuyiwa Adojutelegan, said all aspirants but one have endorsed the direct primary. The governorships contender appealed to the Governor Mai Mala Buni– led Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee to adopt direct primary. He said the crisis in the party in the state was a product of the congress that failed to carry all party members along at the expense of some leaders, which polarised the party. He recalled the last congresses in the state in 2018 was fraught with irregularities that led to litigations in court and disunity in the party. According to Adojutelegan: “11 of the 12 aspirants in the primary election prefer direct primary mode of election and it is in the light of this that I respectfully ask the national leadership of the party to adopt direct primary for our dear State.” The governorship aspirant further argued that “the adoption of direct primary will grossly help to avoid the on-going intra-party crisis, avoid disenfranchising majority of party members from the primary process and create a level playing field for the aspirants. “Direct primary will serve as a catalyst to winning the Governorship election by enabling the emergence of the most popular aspirant ad the party’s candidate.” When asked if there was a meeting among all the aspirants for the adoption of direct mode of primary, Adojutelegan said: “There was no meeting where it was resolved, but from the utterances of each of the aspirants, it is established that 11 out of the 12 of us are for direct primary hence we call on the party to be on the side of majority.” The lawyer turned politician who had a shot at APC Ondo North Senatorial ticket in 2014 and 2018, pleged to lead a transparent and accountable administration adding that his government will be people centered and pro-public service when elected as the governor of the state. The governorship hopeful who was optimistic of victory at the party primary and evetually the governorship election said priority attention will be given to education, infrastructural development, agriculture and job creation, using the agricultural sector to drive and grow the economy of the state. “From inception education has occupied prime position in Ondo State but in the last three and half years, we have recorded many school drop outs due to the hike in school fees. On assumption of office, I will review school fees to enable our young lads go back to school. Infrastructural development in the sector will be given attention. “Generally we are in the race to change the historical narrative by introducing policies for the betterment of the people. We shall ensure an egalitarian state, where everyone has a sense of belonging.” On agriculture, Adojutelegan said “under our administrarion, the economy of the state will be driven by agriculture. We will use the agricultural sector to actualise our industrialisation policy.” Adojutelegan, a founding member of the party in the state said he is the person the state needs at this crucial period in the political history of the state, “I believe that in the circumstances in the State, I am the most qualified to lead the state. There is a need to have a change of narrative. We need to adopt a new strategy to governance and I have what it takes for this change.” Reminded that he hails from the same zone with the governor and that he was alleged to have been sponsored to step down for him, Adojutelegan dismissed the allegations, saying he is in not a spoiler neither was he in the race to step down for any aspirant “Our people believed that Akeredolu has done his best and should be replaced and the replacement should be retained in Ondo North Senatorial district. I am not in the race to step down for anybody. By divine arrangement in the district I am the most popular aspirant. The most experience in terms of viable structure. The fact is, the race is between me and the incumbent.” 