Agboola Ajayi, grassroots politician and deputy governor of Ondo State, cannot be dismissed with a wave of the hand. He is a deputy with a difference. He has successfully projected himself as a factor in the Akeredolu administration, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) chapter and the entire politics of the Sunshine state. The deputy governor knows his onions. He is an experienced actor; clever, diplomatic, and non-temperamental unlike his principal. He is endowed with a sort of political capacity, acumen and mobilisation prowess. Ajayi is a silent operator. He often appears as someone who cannot ruffle feathers. He is accessible by party men and women, traditional rulers and opinion holders. For political reasons, he is also generous. As someone who understood the grammar of politics more than his boss,  he was the politician while his boss was the administrative officer. Many chieftains saw him as the solution to their problems. Ultimately, Ajayi became the defacto governor. Before his boss could decipher his high wire politics and grand moves to displace him, the deputy governor had gone far. Politically, the Owo-born governor was crawling behind him. But, the legal luminary later suddenly woke up from his deep slumber to cut his wings. It was too late. But, as it is said, it is better late than never. The result was the parting of ways. Ajayi now faces two hurdles as Ondo State prepares for a critical governorship poll. These are the primary and the actual election. Having defected from the ruling All Progresives Congress (APC) to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), it is believed that he will be slugging it out with other contenders for the governorship ticket. Will aspirants like Eyitayo Jegede (SAN), Sola Ebiseni and Dr. Eddy Olafeso step down for him at the primary? Can PDP governors anoint him as they did for Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State? Does he possess the same attraction? The political field is always slippery. He may or may not get the ticket. If he obtains the PDP flag, he will face his boss, Rotimi Akeredolu(SAN), who is most likely to emerge as the APC flagbearer, on poll day. If he fails at the primary, there will be no opportunity for him to immediately retrace his steps. He will have to team up with the opposition candidate in the titanic battle for the Alagbaka House. If the deputy governor becomes the PDP standard bearer, can his party dislodge the APC in Ondo? What factors will swing the pendulum towards his direction? Ajayi will not be the first deputy governor to challenge his governor to a duel in Ondo State. In the Second Republic, the most popular deputy governor, the late Chief Akin Omoboriowo, competed for the ticket of the defunct Unity Party of Nigeria(UPN) with Governor Adekunle Ajasin. Following his abysmal failure at the shadow poll, he defected to the banned National Party of Nigeria (NPN). He eventually kissed the dust, despite the federal might. The difference today is that instead of testing his popularity in the APC, Ajayi has returned to his former party and a familiar terrain to try his luck. He is exercising his fundamental human right to seek power. Also, unlike Omoboriowo, whose ambition, nevertheless, crumbled, there is no federal might for the deputy governor to lean on. Until his defection, or prior to the escalation of the rift between him and the governor, Ajayi was the envy of party members, apple of his boss’ eyes and likely future successor. He was the gateway to Akeredolu, who reposed much trust and confidence in him. After Akeredolu managed to get the ticket for a second term in 2016, he picked Ajayi as his running mate. That was after Olusola Oke, who Akeredolu conceded the position to, refused to nominate a deputy for him after declining to consider the offer. Akeredolu knew his limitations. A technocrat, politics appeared too tough, dirty and burdensome for him. It was ironic, and indeed, an anathema, that Akeredolu seemed to loathe the hassles of politicking in the process of seeking power.  He was yet to fully cross the bridge between the bar activism and practical politics. He, therefore, asked Ajayi and Ade Adetimehin, chairman of the party, to assist by playing the serious political role. He ceded political leadership to the party chairman and deputy governor. A crisis of confidence broke out between the two associates, Adetimehin and Ajayi. There were backstabbing, acrimonies and intrigues. But, being the second-in-command, Ajayi wielded greater influence and therefore, had an upper hand as a trusted and loyal deputy. Also, his office was not starved of funds. Ajayi influenced many major appointments in the state. During the parliamentary elections, he played a big role. His endorsement of parliamentary aspirants was critical to success at the primary. That is why many lawmakers appear to be behind him up to now. As Akeredolu failed to have his way in senatorial nominations in the North and South districts, it was alleged that his deputy suggested the idea of Action Alliance (AA) for the two APC chieftains from the North and South. The purpose was to edge out Senator  Yele Omogunwa. For the anti-party activity, the governor earned a symbolic suspension from the party. Majority of House of Assembly members perceived Ajayi as their leader. It was reminiscent of the Omoboriowo days. All poltical complaints went to Ajayi for solution. He dispensed largesee as a commander of resources. Major contract initiation and execution were never accomplished without his input. Lawmakers felt that if Ajayi were the governor, their requests for posh cars would have been granted long time ago. A shrewd politician, the deputy governor, who had operated at the local government level before, also consolidated his hold on the grassroots. Gradually, attention shifted from Akeredolu as the focal point to Ajayi, the rallying point. Irked by the overbearing influence, the first lady, Betty, complained bitterly to her politically naive husband, urging him to stop behaving as a political neophyte. Akeredolu asked his beloved wife to mind her business. He vouched for his deputy’s loyalty. Whenever the tactics of the deputy governor were reported to him, the governor would disclose the complainant to his deputy. Openly, and to the consternation of other chieftains, the governor would always defend his loyal and trustworthy deputy and caution the chieftains against falsehood. The governor made a fatal mistake by his stiff resistance to reconciliation in the crisis-ridden Ondo APC. Many APC stalwarts distanced themselves from the governor because they felt he was not ready for compromise and peace. Akeredolu forgot that lack of peace in the party will rub off on his administration, despite his performance in office. His deputy was inundated with complaints about him. Party members gravitated towards the direction of the number two citizen who had listening ears. Therefore, the deputy governor saw an opening. Knowing that Akeredolu had made many enemies, he played the role of an Absalom. Although an inner and strong member of the Aketi structure, Ajayi has largely succeeded in nurturing his personal and independent structure, although he could not penetrate the rank of veteran governorship contenders who also dislike his gut because he is deputy to their common foe, Akeredolu. At a critical reconciliation meeting in Lagos, which Akeredolu was not inclined to attend, his deputy stood for him. It was a costly miscalculation.The governor said since he was temperamental, his deputy, who appeared to be the opposite of his personality composition, was the right person to attend and give him a feedback. A major highlight of the meeting was”Ondo 2020.” Those who attended the meeting as observers alerted Akeredolu to the turn of events. They alleged that, instead of canvassing a second term ambition for his boss, Ajayi advertised himself as a better alternative. The governor was jolted from his delusion. He was burning with anger. Since he is never diplomatic, Akeredolu turned the heat on his deputy. Another version of the story related to the tragedy of illness, which Akeredolu mercifully recovered from. Just as in the days of Ajasin, when political attention shifted to the charming Deputy Governor Omoboriowo, who loomed large, attention shifted to Ajayi, the consummate politician. A source said Akeredolu’s detractors were not so optimistic about his recovery from an undisclosed ailment in a German hospital. The news of their permutations and day dreaming about politics in post-Akeredolu era got to the son of the Owo priest on his sick bed. The governor prayed and the God his father served answered his prayer in the days of agony, pains and anxiety. The governor miraculously survived. A similar permutation may also fill the air now in the camp of the governor’s foes, following the disclosure about his Covid-19 status. When Akeredolu returned from medical vacation, reality dawned on him that the man he was grooming for future leadership was in a hurry. Again, since the governor lacked political tact, he showed instant hostility by derobing his estranged deputy of his delegated powers and privileges. In a twinkle of an eye, Ajayi became a spare tyre that a deputy governor really is, judging by the defective 1999 presidential  constitution. Fence mending became an uphill task. Some friends intervened, but without success. Reconciliation proved difficult once Akeredolu got the hint that Ajayi had started hobnobbing with opposition elements. Of course, some elements who were jealous of Ajayi’s rising profile decided to fuel the rift. It is in the nature of politics. Mutual confidence had collapsed. After some denials, the deputy did what the Aketi camp feared most. He defected without resigning his position like former Deputy Governor Ibeto of Niger State. The defection, however, did not shake the ruling party. Big wigs, particularly PDP governors, shunned the defection meeting chaired by PDP National Chairman Uche Secondus. Also, other major state functionaries refused to follow suit. State lawmakers, commissioners and council chairman who were perceived members of his camp refused to resign from APC. May be, they are still weighing the options. Last week, APC leaders from Ajayi’s ward in Ese Odo Council declared support for Akeredolu’s second term. However, it is too early to draw a conclusion. Will Ajayi still spring surprise?   