 It is a tribute to the preparedness of the Federal Government that the commencement of the N-Power Batch C kicked off almost seamlessly with some three million youths already completing their online applications in the first week of the opening of its portal. That the exercise has not been marred by technical glitches despite the huge number of applications obviously speaks to the robustness of the information technology platform which itself underlies the commitment of the government to deliver a transparent process. This time around, the government expects some 400,000 youths to be drawn from the millions of applicants into the two-year internship programme, mostly in agriculture for which they will, as in previous times, be paid N30,000 monthly stipend. Unlike similar programmes which began well only to run into problems mid-course, Nigerians cannot wait to see efficiency and transparency run through the entire course of the current exercise. The reason is all too obvious. N-Power programme is certainly not just another programme. It is one of the flagship social intervention programmes on which the Buhari administration has all along sought to anchor its plans to lift 100 million Nigerians out of poverty. The others are the Conditional Cash Transfer programme which directly supports the most vulnerable by providing cash to those in the lowest income group, the Government Enterprise and Empowerment Programme (GEEP) a micro-lending investment programme targeting entrepreneurs with a focus on young people and women, and the Home Grown School Feeding Programme (HGSF) targeted at increasing school enrollment by providing meals to schoolchildren. As would be expected, the N-Power scheme was marked with the usual teething problems as one would imagine of any novel scheme at its take-off in 2016. Some participants in the scheme were disqualified for reasons ranging from being overaged to falsifying their personal information. Not unexpectedly, some participants saw it as a mere stop gap, something to hold on to until something more tangible came up and so missed the import of the entrepreneurial training. Some others soon after enlistment disappeared from their stations only to show up when N-Power officials came around for inspection or when it was time to collect the stipends. On the side of the administrators, some volunteers were known to have complained of irregular payments which officials in turn attributed to wrong Bank Verification Numbers (BVN) supplied by the volunteers. Also, it didn’t help that a scheme initially advertised for two years ran into four years – contrary to the terms of the engagement of the volunteers, hence the speculations about the so-called Nigerian factor coming into play. If it seems inexplicable that Batch A comprising 200,000 volunteers was allowed to run for nearly four years as against two, no less so is Batch B comprising another 300,000 volunteers which also exited after their initial scheduled date. Be that as it may, there is no doubt that the scheme provided more than mere succour for the army of participants, many of whom have used the opportunity to chart a new career path for themselves. Aside fostering human capital development and poverty alleviation, the overall impact in terms of the multipliers on the economy is certainly beyond contention. Which is why the take-off of Batch C of the N-Power programme could not have come at a better time than now that COVID-19 is taking a huge toll on the economy. This time, we expect the supervising ministry – the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development to put all of the lessons of the past four years into good use in making sure that only those qualified get enrolled this time around. As for the complaints that came up in the course of the last exercise, our expectation is that the ministry will not neglect to take action on them.