 A LAGOS High Court in Igbosere has fixed August 26 for a Directorate of Public Prosecution (DPP) report on a N167,886,591,60 fraud charge against an Oyo State council official Badmus Adesina and a lawyer, Ibukunoluwa Konu. Justice O. Ogunjobi adjourned Adesina and Konu’s arraignment to enable the Lagos State Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice determine whether or not to take over prosecution of the case. The defendants are accused of forging documents and stealing N167,886,591,60 from the Estate of the late Godfrey Kwashie Konu. During the proceedings on Wednesday, the court acknowledged a letter from an Assistant Director, Directorate of Public Prosecution (DPP) on the AG’s behalf seeking an adjournment. Prosecution counsel E. O. Asogwa argued, among others, that “the purport of the (AG’s) letter is not known to law. The letter from the contents is asking for a stay of proceedings in this case. “I say that this is contrary to the provisions of Section 273 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Law (ACJL) of Lagos State, 2015 which, in summary, prohibits the stay of criminal proceedings before any High court or magistrates court.” He also noted that the AG is constitutionally empowered to “take over and continue” a case, but that was not the purport of the letter. Peters O. Agboola for first defendant and Folabi Kuti for second defendant opposed him. Agboola said: “All this letter has asked for is an adjournment and not a stay.” The judge upheld the defence’s prayer, noting among others that the AG will consider public interest in the exercise of his powers. Justice Ogunjobi held: “Prosecution and defence are agreed that the AG has power pursuant to Section 211 of the 1999 Constitution to take over criminal prosecution in court. The purpose of the letter from the office of the AG is for an adjournment to enable the AG consider legal advice and determine whether or not to take over prosecution. Arraignment today will not serve any useful purpose if the AG decides to take over and not prosecute. Arraignment will then only result in waste of judicial time. I shall therefore grant the requested adjournment in the interest of justice.” 