 The Centre for Children Health Education Orientation and Protection (CEE-HOPE) has drawn attention to orphans as a result of Boko Haram and herdsmen killings in the North as it launched ICT centres in five states across the country. According to the Founder of CEE-HOPE, Betty Abah, more should be done to better the lot of the children, especially during the pandemic, while calling for quality educational intervention. She made the call as the NGO commissioned an ICT centres along with a borehole in Monkey Village at the weekend. She said: “One of ways to keep children busy is to keep them learning, especially at this time of COVID-19 when they are not in school. The presentation of the ICT centre is very symbolic. We are doing this in five different locations across the country – Lagos, Kaduna, Plateau, Benue and Imo. “Three of those are orphanages with close to 200 children orphaned as a result of Boko Haram, herdsmen killings across the Middle Belt, etc. Without quality education and computer training, its double tragedy for the children, and because many of them saw their parent being killed, many of them have inbuilt anger against society already. Without being computer literate, they can’t have a firm grasp of ICT skills.” To curb future crisis as a result of such tragedies, Abah said that such children should be educated, developed and exposed to diverse opportunities. “More should be done to cushion the effect on them brought by the pandemic. At CEE-HOPE, we believe that by exposing them to such opportunities, we are giving them wings to fly. We are starting off with these ICT centres, launching it here in Monkey village and we are hoping that with time and more resources we would be able to go to other places because majority of Nigerian children are not computer literate. We are here to commission two projects as part of CEE-HOPE empowerment programmes. On his part, a member of the governing board of CEE-HOPE, Lekan Otufodunrin, stated that the borehole project was as a result of the NGO’s outcry, especially on Facebook, due to the severity of water scarcity faced here when Monkey Village was fenced in by their wealthy neighbours sometimes back. While urging the children to stay true to their dreams, he encouraged the children in the community not to give up hope. “I grew up in Ajegunle as a young person. The fact that I can accomplish what I have accomplished today is a proof that anybody can become somebody,” he said.