A presidential candidate in the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) election Dr Babatunde Ajibade (SAN) has congratulated Olumide Akpata on his victory. Akpata beat Ajibade and another Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Dele Adesina, by a wide margin. He polled 9,891 votes, representing 54.3 per cent of the votes cast. Ajibade scored 4,328 votes; Adesina got 3,982 votes. The election was by electronic voting and held for 24 hours from 11pm on Wednesday. It was a significant victory in the association’s history as it signalled a shift from the hold SANs had on the Bar leadership. It represents a revolutionary break from the status quo, partly made possible by the introduction of a universal suffrage in which young lawyers made their number count, as against an electoral college system. Akpata, a non-SAN and commercial/ transactional lawyer, who rarely made court appearances, is the first non-SAN to be elected President of the Bar since 1989 when the late Alao Aka-Bashorun was at the helm. Ajibade said in a statement: “I have called Mr. Olumide Akpata and congratulated him on his election as the 30th President of our great association, the Nigerian Bar Association, in the elections held on 29th – 30th July 2020. “As a co-contestant in the elections, I am proud of the level of the debate and the quality of the ideas that were brought forth, for the improvement of our association, the welfare of its members and the good of our society. “It is unfortunate that the process leading up to and during the election itself has, once again, not been devoid of controversy. “It is my fervent hope that we will get over these repeated challenges with conducting objectively free and fair elections into the leadership positions in the association. “I remain resolute in my belief that we cannot succeed in addressing the challenges confronting our profession unless we unite and I urge the incoming President and his executive to take deliberate and proactive steps to unite the Bar.” The task of managing the association’s image falls on Dr Rapuluchukwu Ernest Nduka, who was elected the National Publicity Secretary. In a message to lawyers, he said: “It was tasking and I would not have gotten this far without your support, prayers and sacrifices. You gave everything to this project and the result was a product of your overwhelming effort. “A new chapter begins. Your ideas and input will assist in fulfilling my manifesto. “My opponent has graciously agreed to work with me, so we can have a rebranded Bar. I strongly believe that we can achieve the goal as I promised in the campaigns with your assistance.” Adesina had faulted the electoral process and called for the cancellation of an exercise he called “a sham”.