The Lagos Police Command on Wednesday announced the arrest of about 400 crime suspects, among whom were 97 armed robbers, kidnappers, rapists and murderers. The arrests were made in one month, commissioner of police Hakeem Odumosu said yesterday while parading the suspects. Twenty-eight persons were arrested for domestic violence and nine suspects whose alleged specialty was defrauding people with fake US dollars. The suspected fraudsters, according to the police, were arrested with their so-called black boxes and operational vehicles, just as six stolen vehicles, 19 assorted firearms with a cache of ammunition, cutlasses, axes, and other dangerous weapons, including fetish objects were recovered from various suspects. Mr Odumosu gave the statistics at the command headquarters in Ikeja while parading some of the suspects arrested within the period. He disclosed that a suspected armed robber was killed by operatives, 28 armed robbery attempts were foiled, six suicide cases recorded and four people stopped from killing themselves. He said operatives intercepted N150 million worth illicit substance including 328 bags of dry leaves suspected to be Marijuana. Kwara State High Court sitting in Ilorin on Wednesday sentenced two armed robbers to death by hanging. Justice Aminat Ishiaq found Adeyemi Aderinkomi and Timothy Ajayi guilty of conspiracy, culpable homicide and armed robbery. The two men were said to have killed Mr. and Mrs. Michael Aigbe of Fate area, Ilorin in December, 2016, by tying them up with ropes and dumping them inside a well alive, and then locked the well to prevent their rescue. The judgment revealed that the convicts made away with the victims’ car, money, clothes and many other valuable items after killing them. The prosecutor Ishola Olofere hailed the judgment, saying it will serve as a deterrent to such other criminals in the state. One of the convicts, Ajayi, who said he is a teacher, had disclosed that he became an armed robber because of financial problems. “I regret it. I have only tried to dupe one person, but I was not successful. I am a teacher.” The other convict, Adeyemi said the couple did not offend them, adding that they robbed the family after they were informed that the couple had important documents in their possession. An Ebute-Meta Chief Magistrate’s Court, Lagos, on Wednesday remanded six armed robbery suspects at a Nigeria Correctional Services centre pending advice from the Directorate of Public Prosecutions (DPP). Mrs Abimbola Komolafe made the order following a July 1, 2020 application and a temporary two-count charge of armed robbery and robbery filed against the men by the police. The suspects are: Jamiu Babangida, 27; Suleimon Lateef, 22; Umar Mohammed, 25; Nasiru Sanni, 23; Sodiq Mohammed, 24; and Rabiu Adam, 20. Prosecuting Inspector Olatunde Kehinde, who moved the application, told the court that the defendants and others at large committed the alleged offences on June 16, 2020. He said the robbery occurred on Odusanwo Street, Idi-Araba, Surulere, at about 8pm. Kehinde alleged that the defendants while armed with a cutlass and knife, robbed one Stephen Victor of the sum of N10,000.