 LEICESTER VS MANCHESTER UNITED Bender Rodger’s side are 5th on 62 points and United sit in third place with 63 points. United need to avoid defeat at Leceister City to play Champions League next season. United Manager, Olegona Solkjear said: “They have been fighting for the position and they need to go past Leicester in the final game. Greenwood has been an inspiring youngster for Man United, if he keeps momentum against Leceister, could give his team an unbeaten 14 league games. Jamie Vardy is another nightmare for Man United defence, which lacks the space when Maguire couldn’t recover. Ole Gunnar Solskjaer knows how much is involved on the outcome of this game. So, he’ll be desperate not to slip but it’s not going to be easy against a Leicester side, which will be devastated to miss out on Champions League football. CHELSEA Vs WOLVESHAMPTON Fourth-placed Chelsea are level with the Reds on 63 points but United sit higher due to their superior goal difference. Chelsea will be hoping to secure one point to earn a top-four finish when they face Europa League hopefuls Wolverhampton Wanderers. Wolves will arrive in the capital on the driving seat to secure sixth spot despite being one point ahead of Tottenham Hotspur in seventh. However, any slip-up from Wolves, who are still alive and kicking in this season’s Europa League, will open the door for Spurs to snatch sixth from their grasp.   PALACE VS SPURS Jose Mourinho’s side will be looking for a win to finish in sixth place, which would guarantee them Europa League football next season. A win for them and loss for Wolverhampton Wanderers will guarantee them sixth position when they finish their 2019-20 Premier League campaign away to struggling Crystal Palace.  ARSENAL VS WATFORD Arsenal host Watford at the Emirates Stadium without much to play for. Firstly, the Gunners have the chance to overtake two of the teams above them on the final day, if results go their way. Secondly, Watford would almost certainly go down to the Championship by losing to Arsenal. They will play with all their hearts just to maintain a stay in the Premier League for next season. For the Gunners, it’s a chance to rebuild momentum ahead of the FA Cup final against Chelsea.  EVERTON VS BOURNEMOUTH Bournemouth travel to Everton looking to win and hope Arsenal, against Watford and West Ham against Aston Villa can do them a favour. With the same goal difference as Watford and only one inferior to Aston Villa, Bournemouth know that their route to survival is to just win and hope results go their way elsewhere. Failure to win will bring a five-year spell in the top flight for the Cherries to an end.  