Following global deaths linked to the damage and destruction of natural environment, Environmental activists from around the world have called on the United Nations (UN), to include new article to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, noting that such development would preserve universal right to healthy natural environment. If successful, this amendment would be the first addition to the declaration since its inception for more than seven decades now. According to a statement, Dr. Muhtari Aminu-Kano stated, “#1Planet1Right campaign dedicated to establishing this new human right, and is led by world’s largest conservation partnership, BirdLife International. Joining them are Nigerian Conservation Foundation (NCF) and other civil society organisations such as ClientEarth and the Global Pact for Environment. Dr David R. Boyd, UN Special Rapporteur on human rights and the environment has also endorsed the campaign. #1Planet1Right sent a letter to António Guterres, Secretary General of the United Nations, on Earth Day officially making the request for a new human right, and will now continue putting pressure on the UN by launching a global petition.” WHO records that 23% of global deaths are linked to the damage and destruction of our natural environment, while hundreds of millions of people suffer from illnesses related to unhealthy and unnatural environment. Climate change is results in more frequent and intense storms, droughts, wildfires and rising sea levels, which in turn threaten the lives of billions of people. The COVID-19 pandemic has its roots in habitat loss and illegal wildlife trade. This new human right can help ensure that the global green recovery the world needs to rebuild society following the pandemic takes both the biodiversity and the climate emergencies into account. UN Special Rapporteur on human rights and the environment Dr. David R. Boyd said: “The right to a healthy planet, as a universally recognized human right, would be a powerful addition to the toolkit for saving the planet. The right to a healthy environment already provides the foundation for much of the progress we are seeing in different nations around the globe. What we need to do now is seize this moment of global eco-crisis to secure United Nations recognition of this right so that everyone, everywhere benefits. The human right to a healthy planet, if recognized by all nations, could be the most important human right of the 21st century.” Chief Executive Officer, BirdLife International Patricia Zurita said: “Our planet’s health is our health. If our planet is sick, we become sick. And right now, our planet has never been more ill. The survival of humanity is already threatened by the climate and biodiversity crises, and this pandemic has pushed us one step closer to the brink. In order to transform, and save society, the starting point must be to ensure that every person has the same baseline – guaranteeing everyone the right to a healthy planet.” Lastly Aminu-Kano said, “Humans are completely dependent on healthy and vibrant ecosystems for their health, water, food, medicines, clothes, fuel, shelter, energy and many more. Environment demand more attention from us now, government; corporate organisation and individual should arise and do something to protect it from absolute collapse. We all need a healthy planet.” #1Planet1Right is a global campaign demanding the right to a healthy, natural environment to be added to the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The campaign is supported by civil society organisations from over 100 countries and counting and will be running until 2023, when it hopes that the right will be added to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to mark its 75th anniversary.