 Forty-eight hours after work began on the Third Mainland Bridge, Lagos, motorists on that corridor seemed to have warmed themselves to the new traffic culture that would be their lot at least for six months. Traffic, for most part, since the closure at dawn on Saturday, has been sluggish but flowing – and fears that it might get worse as work began yesterday seemed misplaced after all. Perhaps, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s message had sunk in. Inspecting the bridge as well as some of the alternative routes provided by the state, Sanwo-Olu had counselled motorists and those living along the corridor to be patient. The distance locked against traffic was less than six kilometres, and, even now, motorists heading to Lagos Island could still travel the Third Mainland Bridge until Adeniji Adele, where they would be diverted to alternative road. In the meantime, traffic on the outbound carriage flows unhindered and would continue till October when the closure pattern would be reverted and traffic diverted inbound Lagos Island as that section would also be closed. Sanwo-Olu, who said he was there to see how traffic flow pattern was being managed for the partial closure, said all hands were on deck to ensure that motorists were not yoked as a result of the repairs.   Motorists from Ikoyi/Obalende  1st option Carter Bridge – Iddo – Oyingbo – Herbert Macaulay – Adekunle Ramp – Oworonshoki.  2nd Option Carter Bridge – Ijora Olopa – Eko Bridge – Funsho Williams Avenue – Doman -Long             Bridge – Ikorodu  3rd option Carter Bridge – Iddo – Oyingbo – Herbert Macaulay – Jibowu – Ikorodu Road. Motorists from Victoria Island  1st option Ozumba Mbadiwe – Falomo Bridge – Alfred Rewane – Old Kingsway Road – Osborn –                        Ilubirin – Carter Bridge  2nd Option Bonny Camp – Independence Bridge – Marina Bridge – Apongbon – Eko Bridge – Ijora Olopa – Iddo – Oyingbo Funsho Williams Avenue.  3rd option Bonny Camp – Independence Bridge – Marina Bridge – Apongbon – Eko Bridge – Funsho Williams Avenue.  “As you can see, men are on ground; all of the reflectors and equipment are on ground. I am here to supervise myself and you can see that it is not as bad. “The part that has been shut down is less than six kilometres, so people coming from Oworonsoki can still have access on to Adekunle, and they can detour right back in the right hand side like going back to Ikorodu,” Sanwo-Olu said. He emphasised that men were on ground to help out. “It’s just that 10 to 20 minutes that you need before you can come back to your lane and once this is done in no time, all of us will get used to it and it would be seamless. “What motorists need is patience and in three months, we will move to the other side, so there is absolutely no need to panic,” he added. That the entire state had been in panic since the repairs announcement hit the town was an under-statement. Motorists and residents as well as other road users had expressed fears that the repairs would  lock down the state. Not with the ongoing repairs that is going on simultaneously on the Eko Bridge (the second Mainland Bridge), which had to be shut in October to prevent a disaster, as the bridge was already resting on the pier decks. The bridge, which, therefore, is out of service they reasoned could have come to relieve the stress and soak up the traffic from the repairs of the third bridge. Besides rolling out  mass repairs on the alternative roads meant to relieve motorists, the government also said about 600 Lagos State Transport Management Agency (LASTMA) officers and 200 regular and special marshals of the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC), apart from other security agents, had been mobilised to direct traffic. Sanwo-Olu admitted that works might be slow on the alternative routes some of which are in dire shape. He said work was ongoing on several flanks and the agency in charge would soon conclude on the routes. He said: “We need to fix Costain Bridge, Alaka end of Eko Bridge, Iganmu Bridge and others that are reconstructed and remodelled, all of these are ongoing.” The governor further assured that the government would release 600 new set of high and medium capacity buses in August, to further bring relief to commuters. The General Manager, LASTMA, Mr Olajide Oduyoye, said: “It is the responsibility of every Lagosian to deal with the traffic on the roads.” He appealed that everybody should be part of the traffic management this period. He added: “You are part of the problem of traffic management if you are buying and selling in traffic, parking on the road, disobeying traffic officers. You don’t need LASTMA to come and teach you how to drive, try your ultimate best to drive properly.’’ Executive Vice Chairman of the Presidential Task Team on the restoration of Law and Order in Apapa Comrade Kayode Opeifa, said there was no cause for alarm, assuring that with the plans of the government, the impact of the partial closure on travel patterns in the state would be minimal. Commissioner for Transportation Dr Frederic Oladeinde said the plans on the road would be further complemented with efficient water transportation, to further bring relief and help solve the challenge of commuting, especially during the repairs. 