Traditional rulers in Anambra State on Saturday extolled President Buhari for his efforts in building infrastructures in the South East region. The monarchs who met with Billionaire mogul, Prince Arthur Eze at the palace of the traditional ruler of Ukwulu Kingdom, in Dunukofia Local Government Area, Igwe Peter Uyanwa particularly cited the ongoing construction of the second Niger bridge, the Onitsha-Enugu-PH road and the Enugu international airport. Speaking on behalf of the monarchs, the traditional ruler, Ukwulu, Dunukofia Local Government, Igwe Peter Uyanwa, described the projects in the area as a testimony of President Buhari’s love for the zone. He however called for the dredging of the River Niger to facilitate transportation and boast commercial activities in the area. He said, “We thank Buhari for the Second Niger Bridge, the Onitsha – Owerri Expressway, the Enugu – Onitsha expressway, the Akanu Ibiam International airport, Zone 13 police command and others. “If you go to Enugu airport today, it is like an airport in New York. If not for the COVID-19, we would have started using the airport long ago. All these are testimonies of the love of Buhari for the people of this region.” Uyanwa further commended the philanthropic disposition of the oil mogul to them, pledging the willingness of the mornachs to reward him soon. “We are asking our brother, Prince Arthur Eze to convey our commendation to the president. We are very happy for what he is doing in the zone. “We’ll give you an award to prove to you that we are happy with what you’re doing. You’re love for traditional rulers is unparalleled,” he added. Earlier, Billionaire Oil magnet, Chief Arthur Eze had promised to lead the monarchs to President Mohammadu Buhari to commend him on his giant strides towards the growth and development of the South East region. Eze said the meeting would also offer the monarchs the opportunity to present the challenges facing the zone. He asked the traditional rulers to appoint delegates to represent them, assuring them of the President’s readiness to meet their demands. He regretted the denial of the five percent local government allocation to the monarchs, assuring of soon correction of such anomaly as well as soon conduct of the local government elections in the state.