In line with its goal to celebrate excellence in the Health and Safety industry, HSENations, Africa’s leading independent health and safety news platform, has announced nomination for the African Safety Award for Excellence (AfriSAFE) 2020. In a statement by Chairman of AfriSAFE Board of Governors, Rear Admiral S A Olukoya (rtd), the 2020 award has been dedicated to celebrate all frontline workers and organisations working to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. He also said the award event will hold virtually in line with global standards for social distancing and large gatherings. “As an health and safety organisation, we are passionate about the efforts of individuals /organizations/groups who have contributed immensely towards curtailing the spread of COVID-19 via various initiatives including innovation, proactiveness and effective responses, unique interventions, acts of heroism and selflessness, etc. This is why we have decided to celebrate this year’s award in their honour. “In view of the pandemic which has resulted in restrictions of large gatherings, we have also moved this year’s event virtually and we anticipate reaching a projected 100million target audience in a virtual award reception,” he said. AfriSAFE, which is a leading global brand for the recognition and celebration of excellence in Health, Safety and Wellbeing on the continent of Africa, held its 2019 edition with 1,223 submitted valid entries from 12 African countries. The event brought together notable safety professionals, captains of industry, social media influencers and corporate organizations from 6 African countries. AfriSAFE 2020 is sponsored by the Institution of Occupational Safety and Health (IOSH), the world’s largest chartered membership body for Safety and Health professionals; Hybrid Group, Combined Training Solutions, Eximia Realty and Surveillance Fire Ltd. It is supported by Safety Plus; Kevron Consulting; Revelation Properties; JPTS ; Total Workplace Safety; Safe Schools; Lagos Safety Commission; FINSBURY HEINZ Ltd; Clarionttech Services Ltd; Fresh Fountain Consulting Ltd; SMTS Ltd; Protec Consulting; DM Sheffield Ltd; DRI Nigeria; Second Coming Nig. Ltd.; Kay Global Work Wear; Hassan B. Hassan & Associates and Africa OS&H. —