 Chelsea sealed fourth place in the Premier League to wrap up qualification for next season’s Champions League with a comfortable victory over Wolves. Frank Lampard’s side needed a point from the potentially nervy encounter at Stamford Bridge in order to clinch a top-four place – but they stylishly grabbed all three. Mason Mount’s delightful 25-yard curling free-kick and Olivier Giroud’s effort from close range were just 144 seconds apart on the stroke of half-time and they settled the contest. The loss means Wolves end the season in seventh place, behind Tottenham on goal difference, after Jose Mourinho’s side drew 1-1 at Crystal Palace. However, Nuno Espirito Santo’s men face a nervous wait as their league position could still be enough for a Europa League place next season, should the Blues beat Arsenal in the FA Cup final next month. Manchester United secured a place in the Champions League at the expense of Leicester City with victory at King Power Stadium. Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s side needed a point from this decisive final-day meeting to confirm a place in the top four – and break the hearts of the Foxes, who were in a Champions League spot for so much of the season. Leicester needed victory once Chelsea took command at home to Wolverhampton Wanderers but their dreams were dashed as Bruno Fernandes scored a 71st-minute penalty after Anthony Martial tumbled under challenge from Wes Morgan and Jonny Evans. Both sides had their chances, with Leicester City keeper Kasper Schmeichel saving well from Marcus Rashford in the first half and Jamie Vardy seeing a header glance off the frame of the goal after the break. Leicester pressed could not break Manchester United down and their misery was compounded when Evans was sent off against his former club for a wild, late lunge on Scott McTominay. Manchester United confirmed the formalities seconds from time when substitute Jesse Lingard robbed Schmeichel and rolled the ball into an empty net. It is a result that fulfils the usual minimum requirement of Champions League qualification for Manchester United. Tottenham secured their place in next season’s Europa League with a hard-fought draw at Crystal Palace. The result sees Jose Mourinho’s side leapfrog into sixth place above Wolves, who lost at Chelsea. Harry Kane opened the scoring for Spurs, dispatching a low finish into the bottom left corner after collecting Giovani lo Celso’s pass. However, Jeffrey Schlupp levelled for Palace with a close-range finish after some poor Tottenham marking at a corner. It was no more than Roy Hodgson’s side deserved, as they ended a run of seven straight defeats. They matched their London rivals for endeavour and could have snatched all three points, with Scott Dann heading a late effort wide. BBCSports