 A GROUP, the Vancouver, has urged  the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to enforce the guidelines on governorship campaigns in Ondo State. it suggeted that online campaigns  will check the spread of Covid 19 pandemic. Speaking during the launch of a website: www.eyitayojedegeforgovernor.com, to support the candidacy of Eyitayo Jegede (SAN) on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), its Outreach Coordinator, Philip Adebayo, said the website will reach out to Jegede’s supporters and voters to know about the candidate and support his ambition. He said the ‘Eyitayo Jegede Campaign’ does not want to make the state a hotbed of COVID 19, adding that the group has decided to support the aspirant through the use of technology. Adebayo said: “The website is also launched to reach out to Eyitayo Jegede teeming supporters and voters in Ondo State to know about the candidate and support his gubernatorial ambition. We are convinced that Jegede represents the best alternative to the failed government in the state that fails to do people’s business and consistently fails to embark on programs that will benefit the state’s people. Lack of performance of this administration should not be surprising because the administration at inception said the previous administration had done all that required projects. “To us, that means unpreparedness of the governor for governance but seeking power for power’s sake. Jegede is not seeking just power but wants to use it to transform the state from the first day he is sworn-in the executive governor. “The best feeling that the people of the state had for the present administration was when they voted for it. Of course, the state’s people wished the current administration succeeded because they want the state to thrive. However, the high hopes which people had for the administration have turned to disappointment. The improvement in infrastructure that the administration promised has remained elusive.  Healthcare delivery in state’s hospitals is monetized and out of reach of the citizens. This is contrary to what the administration campaigned on. The governor’s utterances and actions which have been noticeable across the state have led to more division and marginalisation. This tactic is a dangerous dimension that must be resisted and condemned.” According to Philip, Jegede has demonstrated consistency and loyalty by nurturing the PDP  after losing the 2016 election. He said Jegede’s dedication to the state and PDP has remained unwavering, adding that his commitment to transforming the state from the current situation has been paramount in his mind, thus making him the preferred alternative. “That is why our group is throwing its support for Eyitayo Jegede during the PDP primaries and when he emerges as the PDP’s flag-bearer. Eyitayo Jegede has a private sector background, which gives him the experience and capacity to transform the state from reliance on federal allocations to building a self-sustaining state given its resources and human capital. “Jegede will also make the state conducive for willing investors who create jobs for the state’s teeming population. “The Vancouver Group will not sit on the fence, but will be heavily involved in the state’s governorship election. The people of Ondo State must use the upcoming governorship election to open their eyes and reject this current administration at the poll. “ It is time to undo the mistake they made in 2016 and end this failed administration,” he said. 