The controversy over tenure elongation of the Clerk of the National Assembly (CNA), Alhaji Mohammed Sani-Omolori, has ended with his retirement. The National Assembly Service Commission on Wednesday issued a statement in which it announced Sani-Omolori’s retirement with 151 others, including the Secretary of the National Assembly Service Commission (NASC), Mr. Olusanya Ajakaiye. The commission said workers who had attained the retirement age of 35 years in service or is 60 years of age should leave. It added that such workers will get their retirement letters soon. The commission’s statement was dated July 15, with the title: The National Assembly Service Commission Approves the Retirement Age for the Staff of the National Assembly Service as 35 years of Service or 60 years of Age, whichever comes first. It reads: “Pursuant to its mandate as provided for in the National Assembly Service Commission Act 2014 (as amended), the National Assembly Service Commission, at its 497th meeting held on Wednesday, July 15, 2020, has approved the retirement age for the workers of the National Assembly Service at 35 years of service or 60 years of age, whichever comes first. “To this effect, the commission has approved the immediate retirement of workers of the National Assembly Service who have already attained the retirement age of 35 years of service or 60 years of age. “Retirement letters would be issued to the affected workers accordingly.” The statement was signed by the Executive Chairman of the commission, Ahmed Kadi Amshi. But Sani-Omolori on Wednesday directed the affected workers to ignore the commission’s statement, saying it has no power to take such a decision. In a counter-statement, he said: “The attention of the National Assembly Management has been drawn to a statement, dated July 15, 2020, by the Chairman of the National Assembly Service Commission, informing the general public that the commission had approved the retirement age of workers of the National Assembly as 35 years of service or 60 years of age, whichever comes first. “The management of the National Assembly wishes to inform all workers and the general public that the extant regulation, as contained in our Revised Conditions of Service, duly passed by both chambers of the Eighth National Assembly, puts the retirement age of workers at 40 years of service and 65 years of age, whichever comes first. “The Resolution of the Eighth National Assembly on the Conditions of Service of Workers has not been rescinded nor abdicated by the National Assembly, which, under the authentic National Assembly Service Act 2014, as passed, is empowered to review any proposed amendment to the Conditions of Service by the Commission. “Therefore, the National Assembly Service Commission does not have the powers to set aside the Revised Conditions of Service, as passed by the Eighth National Assembly…”