While Liverpool are celebrating their first title in 30 years, at least five teams are embroiled in a battle for the top four, while others are breathing a sigh of relief having secured their Premier League status for another season. However, for six clubs there is no time to relax, and with only a handful of games remaining, points are precious as they bid to avoid demotion to the Skybet Championships. With 21 points and lying at the bottom of the table, Norwich City’s chances for survival are increasingly looking bleak. The Canaries are seven points adrift of safety after 32 games and their 4-0 defeat to Arsenal at the Emirates Stadium on Wednesday night has certainly not helped matters to the survival fight. The season’s resumption from the coronavirus lockdown has brought with it three losses and a valiant extra time defeat with 10 men to Manchester United in the FA Cup quarter-finals. Norwich will probably need four wins from their last six games to have a fighting chance, but considering they have only managed five wins all season, it looks unlikely – especially given their run-in. Daniel Farke’s side will face a resurgent Brighton at home this afternoon, before a tricky away against fellow threatened Watford. Other matches include West Ham (H), Chelsea (A), Burnley (H) before meeting former champions Manchester City (A) on the last day of the season. Bournemouth are 19th on the table with 27 points and have been in free-fall since December, suffering 11 defeats in 15 games. To make matters worse, midfielder Ryan Fraser – one of Bournemouth’s standout players last season – is refusing to play for the club again as his contract winds down. The restart has comprised three defeats with Wednesday’s 4-1 home loss to Newcastle seems to finally seal their fate as their remaining games does not look too kind for the Cherries. Their next match is away to Manchester United this afternoon and will face Tottenham (H), Leicester (H), Manchester City (A), Southampton (H), Everton (A). Aston Villa are 18t with 27 points, one point behind Watford, who occupy the last of the safe spots. Without a win in eight and with one point in three games since the restart, time is running out for Dean Smith’s team, particularly given their tough run-in. The final game of the season could decide their survival. The Birmingham side’s remaining fixtures include a date with champions Liverpool at Anfield tomorrow, then Manchester United at Villa Park four days later. Crystal Palace (H), Everton (A), Arsenal (H), West Ham (A) completes the list. Watford presently occupy the last safe position with 28 points. It’s been an eventful season for Watford, who by December had a third manager in the dugout and looked sunk before 2019 was over, having failed to win in their first 11 games. Nigel Pearson’s arrival steadied the ship thanks to a good run around the turn of the year, but without a win in 10 games, they are firmly in a relegation battle. The restart brought a draw – thanks to Craig Dawson’s 95th minute goal against Leicester – and a defeat to Burnley. A chance to apply some pressure on their relegation rivals was then squandered against Southampton on Sunday when they fell to a 3-1 home defeat. It could prove a damaging result. The Hornets remaining fixtures include a trip to a smarting Chelsea, who will want to bounce back from a 3-2 defeat to West Ham, tonight; a must win against bottom-side Norwich, Newcastle (H), West Ham (A), Manchester City (H), Arsenal (A). West Ham on Wednesday night took a step towards survival with a decisive 3-2 win over Chelsea. David Moyes has been unable to lead a reversal in fortune and the Hammers remain in the same place they were when the Chilean departed. While successive 2-0 defeats since the restart, albeit against good teams in Wolves and Tottenham, have not helped their survival cause, David Moyes’ side win at London Stadium midweek got them backing in the running especially since their run-in is a mixed bag, so they will need to collect points from the winnable home games. The Hammers remaining fixtures include a must win home game against Burnley on July 8, Norwich (A), Watford (H), Manchester United (A), Aston Villa (H). Considering how hard points are to come by at the bottom of the table, Brighton should have done enough to secure their Premier League status for another year. The Seagulls had the unenviable tag of being the only team in the professional English football ladder to not win in 2020, until their timely win over Arsenal in their first game of the restart. That preceded a draw at Leicester that could have been more were it not for Neal Maupay’s missed penalty. Their fixture list contains some tough games but some winnable ones, too. Two more wins should be enough for Graham Potter and his players. With 33 points and 15th on the table, the Seagulls remaining fixtures include an away tie game with Norwich this afternoon, champions Liverpool at home on July 8 then Manchester City (H), Southampton (A), Newcastle (H), Burnley (A).