In a move described by many political observers as “slow, steady and progressive,” Olorogun Kenneth Gbagi is gazing at the Delta Government House with optimism. Gbagi, according to generally accepted opinion, is the best man to take over the reins of power from Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, who has, over the years, been a trusted ally in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the frontrunner in that state rich in culture, human and natural resources. He has seen it all, a party man, complete gentleman, dogged and rugged, suave, urbane, polished, educated in so many cultures across the globe. Gbagi, like the octopus, cut his teeth across all facets of human endeavours—from being a successful lawyer in the garb of Aare Afe Babalola; the late Gani Fawehinmi et al., he is unarguably one of the richest lawyers in West Africa. Gbagi is an entrepreneur and the highest employer of labour in the oil-rich Delta State with chains of successful businesses across the state; a criminologist, an attorney, hotelier, philanthropist of repute, impeccable character to whom integrity makes a huge sense. Gbagi, a PDP chieftain, is an added value to the party in his state and has done more than any individual to give life abundantly to the umbrella party in the Niger Delta region. This explains why he is called the “man with the Midas Touch” across the Delta region, and little wonder the huge clamour by the overwhelming grassroots population for the Urhobo-born security expert and educationist to take the baton from Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, whose tenure will be coming to an end in May 2023. They trust him to continue building a prosperous state for all at the fullness of the current administration’s time. He has crisscrossed the entire state from one traditional ruler to the other, the people keep assuring him of their unflinching support having stood in for them at their time of need. From Burutu in Delta South through Delta Central to Delta North senatorial districts, the former minister of state, Federal Ministry of Education has planted himself in the hearts of the people over time. According to Archbishop Mike Odafe: “I have no doubt that the royal covenanted declaration is a clear message to opponents, opposition and enemies alike that in the race for Delta State governorship in 2023, Olorogun Gbagi candidature is not contestable; it is divinely signed, sealed and delivered! This is my understanding of this highly prophetic traditional exercise.” A speaker at one of the events welcoming him to their kingdom had expressed joy that Olorogun Gbagi was waxing stronger by the seconds in his bid to take over from the current administration which he described as the most successful in the history of the state. According to the speaker, having succeeded in his chains of businesses across the country, Gbagi alone has what it takes to succeed the Ika-born Governor Okowa. “If you could manage just Caravan Plaza successfully, then, to manage our state would amount to doing what you know best,” the speaker enthused. A major feature in Delta politics that is thrusting Gbagi far and above his contemporaries and his paperweight challengers is his magnanimity rooted in his humanitarian services to the people and his statesmanship unlike the clannish political minions who see themselves as his opponents. During the debilitating pains of the COVID-19 pandemic-induced lockdown, when the masses were caught up in the crossfire of poverty, lack, hunger and starvation, the humane Olorogun Gbagi was there for his people. While some state governments were busy sharing a meal of “Eba and Egusi” soup to their constituents only for them to drift back into hunger the next few hours; Olorogun Gbagi’s gesture during the lockdown to Deltans could be likened to the biblical scenario when Jesus Christ fed multitudes and the leftovers were much more than what they consumed. He brought in truckloads of rice and beans, distributed same evenly across the state without batting an eyelid. Each beneficiary of Olorogun Gbagi’s covid-19 palliatives got a half bag of rice – 25kg, five litres of vegetable oil, beans and so many other items for the people to survive the Covid-19 imposed hunger and this sank deep into the psyche of the people, reflecting in his general acceptance by the people of the Big Heart State. Underrate Gbagi at your own peril; he was the man who, as the chair of the Legal Aid Council, quashed the notorious withholding charges, a veneer under which Nigerians were unjustifiably remanded in prisons. He has no equal among the leagues of the contenders who are best described as dependants or, better still political neophytes for the Government House, Asaba.