The Big Brother Nigeria Season five kicked off in Lagos on Sunday. In line with the NCDC’s guidelines on COVID-19, there was no live audience to welcome housemates. The housemates for 2020 are:  Ozo Chukwu, Victoria Adeyele, Nelson Enwerem (Prince), Boluwatife Aderogba (Lilo), Trikytee, Lucy Essien, Dorathy Bachor, Terseer Kiddwaya, Vee, Praise Nelson, Florence Anyansi (Wathoni), Tochukwu Okechukwu (Tochi), Kate Jones (Ka3na), Ngozi Nlewedim (Erica), Eric Akhigbe, Ezekiel Bright (Brighto), Aisha Umaru (Kaisha), Neo, Tolani Shobajo (Tolanibaj), Layoonn, Nengi. The show holds for 10 weeks. This season, Big Brother is ceding more power to fans with introduction of the tiered voting system, which gives GOtv and DStv subscribers an edge and more votes to keep their favourite BBNaija housemates. According to the organisers, this season’s winner will walk away with N85 million. The breakdown of the grand prize for BBNaija season five include N30 million cash prize; a two-bedroom apartment courtesy Revolution Plus; a top of the range SUV from Nigerian automaker, Innoson Motors; a trip to Dublin courtesy Guinness; home appliances courtesy Scanfrost. Others are a trip to Dubai packaged by Travelbeta; a year’s supply of Indomie noodles, Munch it and Colgate toothpaste; a year’s supply of Pepsi, a branded chiller, trip to watch the UEFA Champions League finale and a brand new Oppo mobile smartphone. Last year’s winner, Mercy Eke, won N30m as well as other mouth-watering gifts. According to the Chief Executive Officer, MultiChoice Nigeria, John Ugbe, the fifth season marks a major milestone in the reality TV series. “We are making this season significant by not only increasing the winnings but also implementing other creative and innovative ways to ensure the show lives up to the premium entertainment, especially during the current pandemic.” The organisers said they were taking measures to keep the housemates safe and coronavirus free. In addition to the thorough health screenings, they would also regularly disinfect the house during the course of the show. Also, external visitors like visiting celebrities and BBNaija Ninjas will not be featured this year. BBNaija season 5 will air daily on DStv channel 198, GOtv Max and Jolli packages on channel 29. DStv viewers can also follow the drama this season with the DStv Now app on a smartphone, tablet or laptop.