BUA Cement plans to establish a three-million metric tonne cement plant and 50 megawatts power plant in Guyuk and Lamurde local governments of Adamawa State. Chairman, BUA Group, Alhaji Abdul Samad Rabiu, stated the readiness of the group when he led the management of BUA Cement on a courtesy visit to the Adamawa State Governor, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri at the Government House, Yola. Rabiu said preliminary findings show that the two local governments of Guyuk and Lamurde are reputed to have quality limestone deposits and BUA Cement is ready to begin the investment in the state. He added that the BUA will use new technologies to supply power to the proposed cement plant and communities of Guyuk and Lamurde in addition to providing 3,000 direct and 5,000 indirect jobs. He stressed that the Guyuk Cement Plant will be the major investment in the North East by BUA and solicited for support of Governor Umaru Fintiri to set up the factory in Guyuk. Rabiu said the company made a decision to source its raw materials locally and it has invested billions of dollars in various sectors across Nigeria and, therefore, urged the state government to support BUA to actualize the Guyuk Cement project. He praised the commitment of the governor within one year in office in many sectors of development despite the economic challenges in Adamawa. Governor Umaru Fintiri said his administration’s effort in exploring local contents has started yielding results and thanked BUA for showing interest in establishing the cement plant in Guyuk. He assured the management team of BUA that government will provide whatever is needed as well as necessary support which will create enabling environment so that the BUA Cement company in Guyuk will become a reality. He also expressed readiness of the government to protect the investment once it is established adding that his administration will maintain the good relationship with the company for the benefit of the state. BUA is Nigeria’s second largest cement producer by volume with cement plants in Sokoto and Edo states. The company’s newest plant in Sokoto is expected to be in operation next year. When completed, the Guyuk Cement Plant will bring BUA’s total capacity to 14 million metric tonnes per year.