Temitope Arowolo, the 31- year- old Nigerian lady, who was falsely accused of attempted murder, theft and imprisoned in Lebanon, said that she saw hell while in the Midde East nation. Arowolo, who landed in Abuja on Saturday, said she will not wish her experience on Satan or her enemy. According to her: “I am happy being home, going to Lebanon was like hell, nobody knows what will happen there but I advise other girls to stay here in Nigeria and try to make it the way the Lord wants them to because going outside there for me was hell, not just in Lebanon but what I experienced in Lebanon, I pray for even Satan not to experience it.” Director General of the National Agency for Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP),
Dame Julie Okah-Donli, who was around to welcome, her said that she will ensure that everyone responsible for trafficking Arolowo are brought to book. She said that she will find out from the lawyers if Arowolo’s charges have been dropped since she was falsely accused. She said: “We are going to rehabilitate her in the shelter and empower her. Of course she has to be quarantined for two weeks that is the law, we will take her to the shelter after 14 days and give her some psychosocial support because she is traumatised, so we are going to counsel her, rehabilitate and empower her, in fact she has so many people already, ready to empower her. “We can only start the job of arresting after we have profiled and counsel her properly, then we will get all the necessary information that will lead to the arrest of her traffickers, we have to make sure that all those responsible are brought to book. “She was charged with attempted murder and theft, which we know was not true. The Lebanese Ambassador promised that she was going to be released and to God be the glory she has been released and she is back.” The Nation recalls Arowolo was slated to return with the last set of evacuated Nigerians from Lebanon in May but was not allowed to board after her employers accused of her stealing $5,000 and attempting to kill him.