Whilst we are still on the subject of those who think it is their inalienable right to soil the image of the nation, it is meet to report that the international community and the global patrol may have finally tired of the fiscal heist of Nigerian fraudsters and money laundering panjandrums. After all it is not altruism that forces people to bury the corpse of an abandoned wastrel. It is the health hazard the corpse may constitute to the larger community. The story you are about to read may appear stranger than fiction. But it is the truth. Three years ago, this column celebrated a friend who turned seventy. Our friend, a titled Benin chief, is the owner of one of the biggest advertising companies in the nation and has been a major player in the field since the early seventies when he was a youthful Advert Manager of the Daily Times Group. In the said piece we described him as a business mogul and a major real estate investor. The article went on to describe our man as something of an enigma who lives in the equivalent of a fortress right inside colonial Ikoyi. According to the said piece, to access our friend, you have to pass through a prison yard, a famous Police Station, an immigration department and finally a thriving cemetery one after the other. Anybody familiar with colonial Ikoyi must know the street in question. But this is where tory begin to get K-leg as they say in Nigerian pidgin parlance. Sometimes this week, a letter from his bank arrived in our friend’s London home asking him in a rather querulous tone to furnish them with answers to the following: 1              Why he thinks he is a mogul. 2              Why he is living in a fortress-like enclosure. 3              Why to reach him one has to pass through a prison, a police station and a cemetery. Echoes of the infamous Colombian Medellin cartel? As proof of invincible veracity, the London bank attached a copy of snooper’s article duly procured online. Oh mine, oh mine, all this is getting rather Kafkaesque and a little bit ghoulish for the delicate palate. Is fiction a slice of real life or real life a slice of fiction? Writing about businessmen can affect the business of writing. All snooper can say for now is that when our friend called from London to report the incident, he was in a cheerful and upbeat mood. Here is wishing him a powerful presence of mind as he is set to return the queries post haste.  To our feckless fraudsters, we say Big Brother Boris is watching you. Exeunt snooper with his tail between his legs.