 To celebrate the International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, BewiAfrica, a Non-Government Organisation (NGO), has sensitised teenagers and other young people in Fadeyi and Ojuelegba areas of Lagos on the negative effects of drugs to their health and future. The theme of the outreach, which was BewiAfrica’s maiden edition, was “Better Knowledge for Better Care.” It emphasised the need to improve the understanding of the world drug problem and how better knowledge will foster greater international cooperation for countering the impact of drugs on health, governance and security. Founder, BewiAfrica, Ms. Florence Hungbo, said the group decided to enlighten the youth, especially students who have become entrenched in substances abuse, because of huge negative effects of drugs on their well-being and future. “We visited the youth and leaders in Fadeyi and Ojuelegba with some entertainers and therapists to lecture the youths on the dangers of drug abuse on their health and future. We will carry out more awareness and outreaches in areas identified as having high cases of drug abuse,” she said. Hungbo, who is also the Managing Director, Bodex Group International, added that the mission of the outreach is to strengthen global action and cooperation towards creating a society that is free from drug abuse and unlawful drug trade. “I must appreciate everyone that took part in the event. We promise to touch more lives and reach more places in the state and beyond,” she pledged. A popular transport unionist at Fadeyi, Femi Akinboyeku (aka J.Plum) condemned drug abuse, disclosing to participants that he doesn’t smoke or drink alcohol. “Today, I have been able to achieve so much because I don’t do drugs. If I did, I would not have been anywhere near where I have reached in my profession,” he said. The Vice Chairman, Somolu Local Government, Bowale Sosimi, commended BewiAfrica, saying that the move was exceptional and the first of its kind for the youth. The Deputy Chairman, National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Ojuelegba, Aransiola Qudus, lauded BewiAfrica for choosing the area for the awareness. Qudus said: “We thank BewiAfrica for this initiative. As for the youths and our leaders present, please extend all you have learnt to others.”