Civil Liberties Organisation (CLO) Anambra State chapter, has called on President Mohammadu Buhari to award scholarship to two indigenes of the state, Agnes Maduafokwa and David Nwobi who scored 365 and 363 to come first and second positions in the 2020 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME). Chairman of the group, Comrade Vincent Ezekwueme said in a statement that the candidates’ outstanding performance deserved commendation, emulation and appreciation. He said the students had bought respect, honour, glory, honour and goodwill to the government and people of the state. He said: “It is of prime importance to note that such award from our dear President will encourage hard work, motivate and influence other students and inculcate in them virtues of hardwork and voracious reading because reward for hard work is success and fulfilling one’s life potentials. “The unprecedented accomplishment of the students is in tandem with the foundation laid by Peter Obi administration and its sustenance by present Willie Obiano administration which has resulted in numerous awards and laurels won by the state in previous competitions both national and international. “It is on record that last year the state won four laurels out of 24 laurels contested during presidential awards for Ministry of Education.” Whether the President would listen to the group’s prayers is yet to be seen. However, the Nigerian Society of Engineers has already rewarded Maduafokwa with N1million. The teenager, who wants to study Industrial Production Engineering at the University of Ibadan, was presented  the cheque at the NSE headquarters on Tuesday. The nine other candidates on the list of top 10 performers in the examination, their states of origin, and choice programmes and universities are: David (363, Anambra, Mechanical Engineering, Kwara State University, Malete);  Mezisashe Ojuba (359, Edo State, Electrical Engineering, Covenant University); Victor Elikwu (359, Delta, Computer Engineering, Covenant); Oluwatobi Adebola (358, Ekiti, Electrical/Electronics Engineering, OAU); Oluwatobiloba Gboyega (356, Ekiti, Computer Engineering, UNILAG); Ojo Samuel (355, Ondo, Electrical/Electronics Engineering, UNILAG);  Jebose Utulu (355, Delta, Mechanical Engineering, OAU); Osom Akan (353, Akwa Ibom, Electrical/Electronics Engineering, UNILAG); Favour Ogundele (352, Kwara, Civil Engineering, UNILORIN); Monsurah Alatise (352, Oyo, Mechanical Engineering, UNILORIN); and Oluwasemilore Adelaja (352, Ogun, Mechanical Engineering, UNILAG).