THERE is need for accurate data in the property industry as it will help owners of houses to perfect their titles and assist consultancy in land administration, the Nigeria Institution of Estate Surveyors & Valuers (NIESV), Lagos Chairman, Adedotun Bamigbola, has said. In an interview, Bamigbola lamented the gap created by lack of basic data or statistics to work with. He said this had denied the development and investment in the sector through Foreign Direct Investment (FDI), which would have further developed their profession. According to him, investment in real estate is not only about money making, but also interest and the public needed to be availed with data to make investment decisions. He promised that the branch would create more zones to create a more comprehensive data to aid professional advisory, decision-making on real estate investment and service delivery. The NIESV chair regretted the slight delay in the delivery of the data study project and attributed it to the Covid-19 pandemic. He said: “The initial date of the project was delayed by the Covid-19 pandemic disruption. It also affected the proposed technical reports we have scheduled for Abule Ado area explosion in  the state before the lockdown, as consultation with the stakeholders could not commence till the relaxed lockdown period about two weeks ago.” Underscoring the damage the pandemic has done to the  economy  and the need  for government intervention in the housing sector, Bamigbola canvassed the need to create a policy on what he called ‘rent break’, that may be encapsulated in insurance bond where a tenant can be given a break or delayed tenancy as a result of  job loss, loss of income or business while the property or the homeowner is also taken care off through tax breaks or other products that will keep them going while waiting for their rentals. He regretted that there had been a lot of rent defaults, adding that   the government should help people keep their rented homes or offices and remain in business. He maintained that a responsible government would think in that direction and maintain stability in the polity. The NIESV chief also advised the government to play a major role in funding and access to finance.  He said some projects funded in foreign currency in commercial retail outlets have been discontinued as a result of the pandemic and asked the government to provide some leverage to keep the businesses afloat. On areas that investors could look at in property investment in Lagos, he said every area in the state has its investment potential, which is a function of capacity in funding, depending on what a particular investor is looking for. He said: “Lagos has  model city plans. What a potential investor needs to do is to look at the location that will suit their investment plan, purpose and business direction. Other things that need to be considered before investing in real estate is to look at the value of the land and development patterns allowed in that particular area. Investment in this sector is not only about funding but largely interest for a particular organisation.”