The needs for individuals, businesses and nations to develop mindsets required to function sustainably in a post COVID-19 world were reinforced at the 10th annual career day conference of The Bridge Leadership Foundation (TBLF) last weekend. The conference with the theme “The Global Economy: Adapting to the new normal” held virtually. The array of renowned thought leaders took turns to discuss issues ranging from economy, policy and politics, education, agriculture, business growth, finance to technology, global markets, health and the creative industry. Founder of the foundation, Senator Liyel Imoke, said the COVID-19 challenges have increased its resolve to provide the platform for young people to actualise their potentials irrespective of the challenges, times or seasons. He said they must learn to adapte and adjust accordingly to the challenges of the times. He said, those who will survive this revolution are those who can adapt, adjust, rethink and redesign their approaches and ideas to problems on day-to-day basis. The lead speaker, Mrs. Ndidi Nwuneli, who is Managing Partner, Sahel Consulting and Founder, LEAP Africa, hinted challenges facing Nigerians are mainly health, economic, social and emotional related. She said while COVID-19 had pushed the nation into the 4th economic revolution, youths are credible and resilient and can be more productive, if given the right support and accountability matrix to function. She recommended that adult literacy training should be fast incorporated into the religious communities. Nwuneli also called for a broad-based collaboration to empower children to read, appreciate life, have hope and create community centres where young people can learn and get equipped. CEO, Gemstone Group, Fela Durotoye, spoke on leading in uncertainty. He said there was a need to find courage to do what is necessary and build the resilience required to get the desired results in spite of any challenge or crisis. He also encouraged professionals to build their capacity and possess the right work attitude that will increase the chances of keeping their jobs or works. Speaking on “New Decade, New Economy, New Solutions were Naadiya Moosaje – cofounder of women in engineering based in south Africa, Hamzat Lawal- founder of connected development and Yomi Williams – founder of Gartner Callaway Group of Companies called for skills development, policy and women inclusion, good governance and politics and sustainable agricultural growth along the value chain respectively. The panel discussion was moderated by J.J. Omojuwa who remarked that COVID-19 is fast tracking us into the future. Other speakers were: Peter Obi, Mitchel Elegbe, Tonye Cole, Alibaba, Ubong King, Thelma Ekiyor, Saudat Salami, Babajide Ipaye and Bukky Asehinde. The Foundation called on concerned individuals, organisations and partners to join the quest to realise it’s goals. The 10th career day was supported by NorthWest Petroleum and Gas Company, Dangote, Lilleker, Levene Energy, Stanbic IBTC, and Ben Akak Foundation.