 The Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency (LASEPA) has for the second time since the outbreak of COVID-19 sealed up Farms City on Admiralty Way Lekki and Quilox Pool and Bar in Ajah area for contravening different sections of the Environmental Law. Also yesterday, the Amuwo Odofin Local Government (AOLG) in Lagos State shut down four markets in the area for non-compliance with guidelines to curb the spread of the pandemic. The entertainment centres were also accused of constituting a setback to the government’s efforts to flatten the curve of the pandemic. The enforcement exercise, carried out at the weekend, was led by the Special Assistant to the General Manager, Dr. Adebola Odunsi and the Director, Enforcement, Compliance and Monitoring, Mr. Kayode Belo. Two other entertainment and restaurant outlets – Page One in Ajah and Bien Mange in Abraham Adesanya Estate – were also sealed. The former was operating a beer parlour and encouraging large gathering. The latter facility located at 9B Dan Suleiman Crescent, Abraham Adesanya Estate was sealed off for illegally converting a residential building for commercial purposes and operating in an unfriendly environment, thereby constituting environmental nuisance to other residents of the area.  LASEPA General Manager, Dr. Dolapo Fasawe said the action was in line with the Environmental Management and Protection Law of 2017. The four markets, which were shut, are Oyinlola and 23 Road markets in Festac Town, OpeOluwa market at Agboju and Arozo Market at Mile 2. The Vice Chairman of the council, Mr. Olusegun Idris, said the action became necessary because of rising cases of COVID-19 in the area in spite of all efforts at curtailing it. Idris, who is also the chairman of the council’s committee on COVID-19, said there had been a lot of advocacy and sensitisation programmes about the virus but the community refused to adhere to the guidelines. Idris said that motor parks within AOLG would also be shut down if the transporters and commuters continued to violate the rules. He said the markets which had been closed indefinitely would only be reopened if they meet the requirements. Also, the Chairman of AOLG Task Force on COVID-19, Mr. Akindare Adetifa, said all efforts put in place to ensure that the guidelines are adhered to had been flouted. 