 It begins with you? Have you heard of this sentence comprising eight words before, or perhaps you have read about it somewhere? Strong inspiring motivational words to make a short sentence; it’s a short sentence that drops responsibility on your door step and puts the spotlight on you. Hear this: “If it’s to be, it’s up to me”. These words tell you that you are the architect of your destiny. You are the sole determinant of what becomes of your life. You can if you think you can and likewise you cannot if you think you cannot. It’s that simple. If you can believe it, you can achieve it. If you can think it you can do it. If you can dream it, then it’s possible. You need to get to a point in life when you realise that you need to stop making excuses and take life head on. Your life is in your hands; your destiny is in your hands, if you will be successful. It’s in your hands, to be or not to be? It begins with you. The sooner we realise that other people will not take responsibility for whatever becomes of us, the better for us because then will we wake up to the reality of life and go all out to make things happen for ourselves because now we have come to the realisation that if it’s to be, it’s up to me. Think about your goals and think about your dreams. Think about how you can make them happen; how you can bring them to fruition, how you can translate them from possibilities to realities. You have high hopes and aspirations. You have lofty goals and beautiful dreams for your future. You have so many good things that you wish will happen for you. Even beyond that, you dream and scheme about them and I want you to know that it is possible. All you need to do is roll up your sleeves and get to work keeping these words in mind; “if it’s to be, it’s up to me” Below are two thoughts I will like to share with you that I believe will be a benefit in helping you to stand strong go on towards your dreams and step into your destiny: * Have positive mentality: it’s important and imperative that you are positive as regards your life. Always be positive. This will help you to stay in the game. Even when things are not going your way and you encounter various challenges and setbacks, you should be positive. Tell yourself ‘this is my life. I will make it work. I refuse to lie down and give up. I will remain positive.’ According to Les Brown: “When life knocks you down always try and land on your back, because if you can look up, you can get up”. Having a positive mentality will keep you on the go, it will keep you pressing forward and pushing forward. * Be motivated to act: It’s good you have developed a positive mentality but you also need the motivation to act. Act is from the word action. You need to carry out actions in consonance with what you believe in. Take actual steps towards becoming who you want to become. It’s not just enough to be positive and dream about your future, you need to take actions. Go all out for it. Go full steam. Your car tank is full, gas pedal is on the right, just go full throttle into your future and be who you were born to be. Dear friend, you have greatness inside of you no doubt but for it to materialise, you must do something about it. Remember: “if it’s to be, it’s up to me”. Great things are standing in queue, waiting to happen in your life, but it all begins with you; be positive always and have the motivation to take action, I wish you the best in everything you do. Adenuga writes via lamideadenuga@gmail.com