All Progressive Congress’ (APC) youths in Ekiti state has accused the former governor Ayodele Fayose of ceaselessly making subtarreanean moves to stir confusion in the ruling party like he allegedly did to his party, the People’s Democractic Party (PDP). The youths said that the call by Fayose that Governor Kayode Fayemi should punish the Senator Babafemi Ojudu and Senator Adedayo Adeyeye for criticising the governor over his alleged dictatorial tendencies and underperformance was a clear indication that “he was still in chains in his egomaniac prison”. The youths under the aegis of Concerned Ekiti APC Youths, in a statement in Ado-Ekiti on Saturday by its coordinator, Tenibiaje Babatope, said the vituperation against Ojudu and Adeyeye was that of a wounded politicians struggling to save itself from political extinction. The group said the ex-governor should rather concentrate on how to solve his travail in the opposition PDP rather than pay attention to the ‘family issues’ within the ruling APC. “We view with consternation the vituperation of Ayo Fayose against Adeyeye and Ojudu that they are not welcomed in PDP. In a sane clime, Fayose ought to bury his head in shame and apologize to the Ekiti people over his four wasted years of reign of terror and malfacense instead of dancing naked in the market square displaying his low level of intelligence and education. “One wonders if Fayose, a political prostitute who had tasted PDP, ANPP, AA, Labour Party and back to PDP as a prodigal son and became the destroyer and undertaker of PDP that well meaning Ekiti people toiled to build while in wilderness could claim to be the new owner of the party. “Fayose has been the only Governor in Ekiti history that was impeached, the only Governor facing criminal corruption charges and the only Governor that reduces Ekiti people to street begers being given one Congo of rice and #200 palliative. “When did Fayose suddenly becomes the spokesperson of APC?. A meddlesome interloper seeking relevance in order to seek soft landing from Fayemi. Fayose, your advice to Fayemi is unwanted, ill timed,full of biles and hatred. Leave APC to solve her own problem in a family way. “Concentrate on the problem of your party with your crooked ward executives that is before the court of law. Fayose is not in a position to determine the admission or otherwise of any person to the PDP. He is not the founder or the owner of the party. He is the major cause of the current misfortune of the party in the state. His senseless vituperations against these two great sons of Ekiti shows clearly that he is still in chains in his egomaniac prison,” the group said.