 Democracy has to be born anew every generation, and education is its midwife—John Dewey I order to attain to the goals of economic freedom and prosperity, Nigeria must do certain things as a matter of urgency and priority. It must provide free education (at all levels) and free health facilities for the masses of its citizens—Obafemi Awolowo  THE Minister of State for Education, Chukuemeka Nwajiuba, recently announced that the federal government is about to hand over public schools not doing well to private sector players: “We are going to be changing to the Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM), curriculum and enhance it…Also, we are stepping up with private sector players because we have realised that we cannot do it alone. It is essential we bring everyone on board through public-private partnerships…For instance, we have a lot of public schools that are not doing well; so, instead of building new schools, let us concession some of these schools to those who have the capacity to adopt and close-manage them very well…These are the kinds of projects we want to do and I proposed this when I was the Chairman of TETFund.” This policy announcement needs more elaboration. There are many issues raised in the announcement that should be of interest to citizens, especially parents of pupils of the country’s public education system. One of such questions is whether the minister is taking his authority to give public schools for adoption to private sector players from the federal government’s Public-Private-Partnership (PPP) legislation or is basing authority for such transfer of public resource to private players on his ideas when he was at TETFund. The federal government’s policy on PPP includes joint efforts between the government and the private sector in creation of new infrastructure, expansion, and refurbishment of existing assets. Areas of public infrastructure approved for PPP arrangement include Roads and Bridges; Ports and Railways; Inland Container Depots and Logistics Hubs; Gas and Petroleum Infrastructure; Water Supply, Treatment and Distribution Systems; Solid Waste Management; Urban Transport Systems; Housing; Healthcare Facilities; and Educational Facilities (my emphasis). Does the minister’s decision to concession schools that are not doing well to “those who have capacity to adopt and close-manage them very well” include transferring management of such schools beyond the infrastructural aspects to contractors? If what is to be transferred to private managers is just provision of the infrastructure of schools that are not doing very well, that policy will be within the framework of the government’s items slated for collaboration between government and private contractors. Afterall, most of the buildings in public schools including federal unity schools were built by contractors, just as many public housing projects are usually handled by contractors. The only thing that will be new is transfer of maintenance of such physical facilities to individuals or organizations, other than the school and the government. But if the minister includes management of the curriculum, teaching, and administration of public schools in the PPP system, then citizens ought to be given opportunities to discuss efforts by government officials to offshore teaching and learning in schools funded with taxpayers’ money to private owners. As such decision is likely to affect philosophy and integrity of public education, it is not a matter that should be decided behind the backs of citizens and their representatives in the National Assembly, for whatever such effort may be worth. PPP is a model that is gaining ground across the globe and even in Nigeria. Chief Obafemi Awolowo launched public education in Western Nigeria with a model of PPP between faith organizations (churches and mosques) and the government in a joint effort to fund and manage public schools, before migrating to the model of full-scale public education now in existence in many parts of the country. Although Nigeria’s private sector may be doing better in terms of efficiency than the governments—federal, state, and local, there are not many countries with more efficient private sector than Nigeria and with traditions of successful public school system that have driven public education with private managers, beyond building of physical infrastructure and school facilities. While it is in order to offshore building of schools and managing of physical facilities of public schools, it is, for obvious reasons, risky for any country to leave the job of public education—teaching, learning, and administering (now managing) the process of teaching and learning in the hands of contractors, regardless of how proficient such private-sector managers may be. As provider of a common good made possible by taxes from citizens, the government remains the most qualified sector to operate public schools. Accountable governance may require that government cuts waste and enhances efficiency in public schools, but doing this should not include attempts by agencies of government—collector of citizens’ tax for the purpose of public education among other functions–to transfer management of schools as public sites of learning and teaching to businessmen. Scotland, the first country in the world to start public education in the 17th century, still produces one of the five top quality public education systems in the world in 2020, if the results of Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) is anything to go by. And Scotland has not contracted management of its school system to entrepreneurs. On the contrary, it has assisted its local governments to manage such schools with constant monitoring by the tier that holds tax funds in trust for citizens. There is no doubt that there are problems with education, especially public education in Nigeria today: substandard physical infrastructures; underfunding of schools by the government at all levels; poor quality of teachers and of teacher preparation/certification; and over bureaucratization of public school management that fueled corruption, which in turn, worsens the state of public education in the country. If offshoring physical facilities and managing them can reduce corruption, thereby leaving more money for providing relevant education to citizens in the interest of national development, this column congratulates the minister of education. But if by “close-managing schools that are not doing very well,” which the chairman of the education committee in the House, Julius Ihonvbere, has characterized as the new normal, refers to transferring management of the process of providing teaching, learning, and research, this column believes this is not the path to take. Our governments, especially federal and state, have experimented with various models of public education in the past—PPP (in terms of grants-in-aid to operate schools with religious organizations), nomadic, and Almajiri. What the governments have not done well in the last four decades is leaving managing of public schools at the community in which schools are located. Instead, governments have created huge bureaucracies around education to suffocate and frustrate people directly involved in educating young citizens. By transferring building and maintenance of public school infrastructure and physical facilities (including supply and maintenance of assistive technology for teaching and learning) to private partners, so much distraction would have been eliminated for teachers and school administrators, thereby leaving those charged with managing the academic component of public education with more time to concentrate on their own area of expertise, instead of  being saddled with negotiating with contractors. And separating academic from real-estate concerns  should give the governments opportunities for deferred payment to private partners and to provide adequate funding for those areas that cannot wait for deferred payment: quality teacher preparation/certification; respectable salaries and benefits for teachers; academic enrichment incentives for students; unfettered access to public education for children to receive equal opportunities for learning; etc. There seems to be nothing in the federal government’s framework for PPP described at the beginning of this piece that supports “concession of  some public schools that are not doing very well to those who have the capacity to adopt and close-manage them.” For the benefit of public conversation, the minister of education should explain to citizens what this policy entails.