Football associations in Ghana and Senegal have shown transparency in sharing the COVID-19 relief funds from the Federation of International Football Associations (FIFA) and Confederation of African Football (CAF) to cushion the effects of the pandemic on the beautiful game of football. However, there are fresh concerns from the football stakeholders on the way forward by the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) on the largesse from the world and continental soccer ruling bodies, report OLALEKAN OKUSAN and TUNDE LIADI When the Federation of International Football Associations (FIFA) gave cash palliatives to its 211-member associations in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, it was aimed at helping footballers and others involved in the sport. FIFA’s relief plan for world football was pegged at an impressive £1.2 billion ($1.5bn) and from the breakdown; all member associations would get a universal solidarity grant of $1m, with an additional $500,000 grant specifically for women’s football. Each confederation such as the Confederation of African Football (CAF) would also receive a grant of $2m. The first two stages of the Coronavirus relief package saw member associations receiving operational-cost payments in advance, with development grants converted into COVID-19 operational relief funds. A minimum of 50 per cent of these funds was to be allocated to women’s football. Also, the Confederation of African Football (CAF) took the cue from FIFA with its 54-member federations getting $300,000 from the continental body. In a statement by CAF, each of the 54-member federations would get $300,000 in extra funding from the Cairo-based Organisation to help overcome lost revenue during the pandemic. The total aid package for the continental body is $16.2 million. Explaining the rationale behind the relief fund, FIFA President Gianni Infantino said: “The pandemic has caused unprecedented challenges for the entire football community and, as the world governing body; it is FIFA’s duty to be there and support the ones that are facing acute needs. “This starts by providing immediate financial assistance to our member associations, many of which are experiencing severe financial distress. To ensure transparency, Ghana Football Association (GFA) released a document showing how the FIFA & CAF COVID-19 Relief Funds would be disbursed. According to an official statement signed by FA General Secretary Prosper Harrison and dated July 15, 2020. It showed that 12 groups would benefit from the funds shared by FIFA & CAF COVID-19 Relief Funds. The 12 groups are Premier League Clubs, Division One League Clubs, Women’s Premier League Clubs, Regional Football Associations, Schools and Colleges, Professional Football Association of Ghana, Referees Association of Ghana, Coaches Association of Ghana, Beach Soccer Association. Futsal Association; Security Services Sports Association; and Juvenile Clubs Association. Going a step ahead of GFA, Senegal Football Federation published its relief package for men and women clubs. For the men’s clubs, top-flight – $26,000 each club, second-tier – $17,000 each club, third-tier – $12,000 each club, fourth tier – $5,200 each club. The women’s team sharing formula are first-tier – $5,200 each club and second-tier – $3,500 each club. It was on the heel of what happened in Ghana and Senegal that prompted the National Association of Nigeria Professional Footballers (NANPF) urging the NFF to publish its relief package for clubs in the league as was done across the globe. Making a reference to the Senegal Football Federation relief package, NANPF,  through its Secretary-General Austin Popo, asked the NFF to learn from other football associations. He affirmed that players and staff are being sacked by each passing day due to insufficient funds for the upkeep of teams. “Following the disturbing development of the on-going incessant sacking or suspension of players and coaches by some clubs hinged on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Nigerian players Union NANPF wants the NFF to follow the trend of other Football Federations across the globe and publish the palliative money from FIFA and (CAF) received and distributed to clubs in the various leagues, to forestall any possibility of diversions for the purpose of accountability, integrity and transparency. “This is not happening to Nigeria alone and we are no longer comfortable with so many players already been sacked due to the pandemic,” Popo said. Former League Management Company Director and ex-Wikki Tourists Chairman, Isa Matori, called on the NFF to be more open and transparent with sharing of the palliative from FIFA and ensure that all stakeholders are carried along. Matori said that the cause of the disquieting thoughts among the stakeholders could be as a result of lack of trust in the football house to wholly remit what is due to them, adding this could be forgotten in a flash if the NFF is more transparent going forward. He urged stakeholders to believe in the Amaju Pinnick-led NFF and not become suspicious of all their actions that are geared towards making football great again in Nigeria. “The problem with Nigerians is that people do not have confidence in their leaders and they suspect everything. The suspicions are too much,” Matori told NationSport. “You cannot have the best from your leader unless you have the full confidence and trust in him; the moment you don’t, there is nothing he can do to convince you. “All I want to tell you is that the leaders should have the fear of God. Whatever you do, your creator knows whatever you are doing and what you’re planning to do in the future. If the fear of God is there, it will make you be transparent and people will have confidence in you. “I will urge the NFF to carry all stakeholders along while making decisions on the palliative from FIFA just like a few African countries have done. It is what will boost people’s confidence,” he noted. Speaking in the same vein, both Enugu Rangers Chief Executive Officer and General Manager Davidson Owumi and Nigerian league legend Victor Ezeji agreed that caution must be exercised until after  the expiration of the two-week deadline given by the NFF. Owumi said: “I hardly want to comment on issues like this because of my peculiar position. I may not be used to open criticism of the system; I know that sometimes last week, Pinnick said he needed two weeks. “So, let’s wait for that time to come maybe I will be in a better position to grant this interview then.” Ezeji, a legend of the domestic league offered: “I heard a few days ago that the NFF president said that we should give him two weeks to sort issues concerning the FIFA Palliative. I know that NFF will try to be as transparent as possible because they know the issue has generated so much heat in the public sphere “It is just appropriate that we allow the two-week grace to expire before any further action on the issue,” he said. Ex- Enugu Rangers and Warri Wolves attacker, Abu Azeez also warned that we should tread with caution while talking about the subject matter with the pronouncement from the NFF and he gave reasons why patience should be the watchword. “I think I heard in the news recently that the NFF will inform Nigerians how the FIFA Palliative will be disbursed in two weeks’ time so I think that issue should not be discussed for now,” Abu Azeez noted. “It is not our right and it is just FIFA’s magnanimity to support the players in the league. The NFF I know will do what is best for the players and for the teams in Nigeria whenever they are ready.” Wikki Tourists’ head coach, Usman Sidi Abd’Allah on his part said besides providing details of who-gets-what at various clubs, the NFF should also provide modalities on what the various clubs should use the funds for so that it is not diverted. “I know that the NFF is working out modalities on what should go to various clubs from the FIFA grants but they must also provide details of disbursement for various clubs too so that the monies would be used for what is intended,” Abd’Allah told NationSport in an interview. “We know how some clubs behave and what could become of the funds from FIFA in the hands of clubs if the NFF does not give a detailed account of how the cash is to be used by the clubs.” Meanwhile, Ex-international Adegoke Adelabu said the welfare of local league players were barely taken care of by their respective clubs even before COVID-19 pandemic, wondering how they would cope under the current difficult situation before the league resumes. He said: “The whole thing is so shocking and I know that it has affected a lot of clubs in Nigeria that depend on government subvention for survival. Even before the crisis, most of these players were neither paid well nor paid regularly. “As it is now, local league players have no choice than to keep themselves fit by training regularly so that when the league resumes, they will be able to pick up the physiological aspect of themselves and get back to business as long as they are still under their respective club’s payrolls.” He also pleaded with the NFF to judiciously use the FIFA COVID-19 palliative:“ What I think the country’s football governing body can do is to make sure that all the registered clubs in the country are given some money since these teams are not generating any money as proceeds from gate takings. I think this is part of allowances the players were supposed to get from their respective clubs and I think the players should benefit from the FIFA largesse too.” But in what is a swift response to the growing concern of the press and public, NFF’s 1st Vice President, Seyi Akinwunmi, has declared that the $500,000 given to the federation by FIFA is not a COVID-19 palliative as widely being insinuated by some enthusiasts. Featuring on the BCOS TV, Akinwunmi, said the money was actually an annual fund due to Nigeria, adding the money was meant for the running of football in the country: “A lot of people believe the $500,000 we recently got from FIFA is COVID-19 palliative. Actually, it is the annual fund due to Nigeria. And it is meant for the running of Nigeria football. It’s not to be shared by stakeholders.” He promised that the funds would be well spent and He hinted that the funds would be spent in accordance with FIFA’s specifications and will be accounted for by the NFF in accordance with FIFA’s regulations and directives.