 The Rotary Club of Eko Atlantic has donated laboratory equipment to Ogba Primary Health Centre, in fulfilment of its pledge to help end sickle cell, cancer, maternal and infant diseases in Lagos State. The items included electrophoresis machine, medical centrifuge machine, laboratory/research binocular microscope, heamoglobin metre and laboratory incubator to upgrade testing and diagnosis capacity to reduce death rates in the state. Handing over the equipment,  the club’s immediate past president, Dr. Sunit Deb Roy, explained that it donated the items  to actualise its mission in its six core areas. The project, Roy said, targets healthcare, as the club seeks to end mortality arising from child bearing, sickle cell, cancer and typhoid, among other diseases. The project was made possible through the project leader  Adesola Bada, Kishore Bendre and Gboyega Bada, he said. “We had inspected the delivery room, laboratory, and all the departments in the facility and how we can upgrade them. We are donating five laboratory equipment so that people can come to this healthcare centre to do culture test, pregnancy test, typhoid test, genotype and PCV, among other tests. And these are the common tests people run around spending money to do. We need to do tests for accurate diagnosis and treatment. We have adopted this health facility and will ensure we upgrade it to the highest standard,” he said. The hospital’s Chief Medical Laboratory Scientist, Dr. Akinkunmi Tolu, said the medical equipment are vital to boosting diagnosis in pregnant women and children, who contract respiratory tract infection and other diseases, adding that proper tests and treatment would be administered rather than trying different types of medication that put lives at risk. The equipment will boost the medical laboratory investigation and will also enhance the speedy recovery of patients after investigation, as well as help reduce death rate among residents of the community, the hospital said. The health centre said the centrifuge will be used for segmentation of fluids and run other tests where the serum is used. He said: “For the test we can do here, we can run pregnancy test, blood, microscopic test to detect cells, sexual transmitted disease, genotype, PCV, heamoglobin and forensic, which detects the genes. The light microscope is used to run culture and sensitivity test to check for ailments such as malaria, typhoid and all the sediments in urine. ‘’These machines for these particular tests are not something you get in regular healthcare centres, we are very privileged and glad that we have this at Ogba PHC.”