As part of measures to curb the spread of COVID-19, the Ekiti Government on Saturday announced the suspension of all pending local and traditional festivals in the state. In a statement in Ado-Ekiti on Saturday by the State Coordinator of COVID-19 Task Force Response Team, Prof Bolaji Aluko, the government directed traditional rulers in towns and villages to indefinitely suspend all local festivals in their domain. Aluko explained that the traditional festivals were suspended for the rest of the year because of the increasing cases of COVID -19 in the state. He revealed that the State had so far recorded 78 positive Coronavirus cases, with 29 active, 2 deaths, and 47 discharged, warning that the cases can rise dramatically if public assemblies continues unchecked. Aluko raised the alarm that travels from within Ekiti State and various parts of Nigeria by indigenes and visitors to the state during this period of the pandemic, had started to occur as the towns and villages was gradually entering season of local festivities. According to him, the attendant incidents of virus transmission in these crowded and boisterous situations, where social distancing is practically impossible, and mask wearing, which is also required, may be impractical for prolonged times. ”Consequently, the wise course is to seriously discourage these festivals at this time. “In fact, they are effectively banned by current government guidelines requiring social distancing and limited-number assemblies. ”Therefore, we are appealing to all Obas, Council Chairmen, Councillors and community leaders for the cancellation of the public celebration of all upcoming festivals and cessation of ongoing ones in all part of Ekiti until further notice. ” These festivals should be observed in the quietness of homes. Some Obas have already been commendably proactive and announced cancellation for the rest of the calendar year,” he said. The COVID-19 Coordinator, called on the people of the state to comply with the government’s directives against crowded assemblies, lack of social distance, and non-wearing of masks would, and must be enforced by the security forces. ”We ask for your cooperation because Ekiti State currently has cumulatively recorded 78 positive COVID-19 cases, 29 of which are active, with 2 deaths and 47 discharged, but the cases can rise dramatically if public assemblies continue unchecked.