A lively and vigorous conversationalist, Nobel Laureate, Professor Wole Soyinka is always the interviewer’s delight. His keen intellect, the variety and diversity of his prodigious literary output, his fierce commitment to the cause of justice in Nigeria and beyond, his deep immersion in the history and politics of Nigeria, his perceptive insights into the character and evolution of Nigerian politics and his often scathing assessment and critique of the country’s leaders make any conversation with Soyinka a veritable feast of ideas. The Nobel Laureate’s life has been intricately interwoven with the political and socio-economic evolution of Nigeria at almost every point. His prophetic play, ‘A Dance of the Forests’ was performed in commemoration of the nation’s independence in 1960. A number of his autobiographical works and memoirs in particular demonstrate Soyinka’s deep interest in and participation in some of the more dramatic incidents of Nigerian history including the civil uprising against an unpopular Samuel Ladoke Akintola government in the Western Region in the First Republic, the Nigerian civil war (1967-1970), the dismal and corruption-ridden politics of the Second Republic (1979-1983), his skirmishes with successive military dictatorships, his frontline role in the struggle for the actualization of the unjustifiably annulled June 12, 1993, presidential election as well as the politics of this political dispensation since 1999. Some of these works include ‘AKE: Years of childhood’, ‘Ibadan: The penkelemesi years’, his prison memoirs, ‘The man died’ and his autobiographical tome ‘You Must set forth at Dawn’.  In novels, poems, drama, essays, music, film etc, Soyinka has ceaselessly confronted the challenges and travails of post-colonial Nigeria and sought to enable the actualization of the country’s largely trapped potentials. On one of my visits to a favorite bookshop here in Lagos, earlier this year, I came across a new book, ‘The Man Lives: A conversation with Wole Soyinka on Life, Literature and Politics’, published in 2019 by Okey Ndibe, the award winning novelist   and literary scholar. The title of the book is obviously a derivative of Soyinka’s prison memoirs, ‘The Man Died’. Of course, yours sincerely could not resist the temptation of acquiring a copy of the book as I eagerly sought to engage once more with the thoughts of Soyinka on diverse issues of life and living not least his political thoughts. I remember vividly when I first came into contact with the book, ‘The Man Died’. It was sometime in the late 1970s if I recall correctly. The entire family was on the way to Bacita in Kwara State to visit and spend some weeks with some family friends. Ensconced in the backseat of the car, my father was engrossed most of the time in reading a book and had barely any conversation with my mother and other siblings. What book could have captured his attention so intensely I wondered? I was later to discover that it was Soyinka’s ‘The Man Died’. Although I was later to try reading the book, it was much later that I was able to comprehend much of what the author wrote. The book has long since been one that I return to again and again with fascination at the author’s sheer courage and audacity in resisting and actively confronting injustice and abuse of power. Sometimes in the 1970s, I came across and owned a copy of an interview by John Agetua with Soyinka largely centered essentially on his prison memoirs. That slim publication also contained interviews by Agetua with Zulu Sofola and Amos Tutuola if I recall correctly. One of Soyinka’s memorable phrases that struck me in the Agetua interview was when he described literature as ‘a hand-grenade which you detonate under a stagnant way of perceiving reality’. And that is exactly what Soyinka in ‘The Man Died’ and other literary offerings strives to do. The conversation with Okey Ndibe in ‘The Man Lives’ is wide-ranging and thought provoking. Thanks to the interviewer’s probing questions, Soyinka speaks penetratingly on diverse issues including his attitude to life and religion, his uncompromising opposition to any form of injustice, his intriguing relationship with Nigeria, his motherland, his relationship with fellow writers such as Christopher Okigbo, Ngugi Wa thiongo and Chinua Achebe, his role in the civil war, the writings of emergent younger writers, the Pyrates Confraternity, the Nobel Prize which he won in 1986, language and literature and diverse issues in Nigerian politics. It is inevitable that Soyinka would also share his opinion on diverse personalities on Nigeria’s political terrain, most of whom he had interacted personally with across time. These include General Yakubu Gowon, Colonel Odumegwu Ojukwu, General Olusegun Obasanjo, military President Ibrahim Babangida, Chief MKO Abiola, Colonel Chukwuemeka Kaduna Nzeogwu, Colonel Victor Banjo, Alhaji Abubakar Atiku among others. The 140-page book is divided into three subsections. First is an introduction by Okey Ndibe, which is a wide ranging discourse on Soyinka’s literary works as well as his political thought and praxis. The actual conversation with Soyinka takes place partly in Soyinka’s house in Abeokuta and partly in a car on a trip to Makurdi, Benue State, to attend a literary event and constitutes the second section. There is then a postscript, which is a follow up conversation with Soyinka in the aftermath of the 2019 elections to enable the Nobel Laureate offer his insights and perspectives on that election. The final section is the appendix in which the interviewer gives a succinct analysis of the political evolution of Nigeria. From this book, Soyinka remains fervent in his belief that the pogrom in the North in the aftermath of the July 1966 counter coup, which led to the death of thousands of Igbo citizens, was a gross act of injustice which cannot be justified under any guise. In a similar vein, he condemns in vehement terms the execution of Ken Saro Wiwa after a controversial trial by the Abacha dictatorship. It is unfortunate that the interviewer did not ask Soyinka to comment on the murder in broad daylight of the four prominent pro-government Ogoni chiefs, allegedly at the behest of Ken Saro Wiwa and his supporters, that resulted in the latter’s trial for murder in the first place. And on Biafra, it would have been useful if the interviewer had sought Soyinka’s views on the contention by the late Professor Billy Dudley in his book, ‘Instability and Political Order: Politics and Crisis in Nigeria’ that Igbo in and outside the Ahmadu Bello University, where he taught at the time, held northerners in barely disguised contempt. According to Dudley, “Outside the university, the practice of Igbo men holding up Northerners to ridicule had become a common enough experience. Pictures of Nzeogwu with one foot over the corpse of slain Premier of the North, Sir Ahmadu Bello, symbolic of the downfall of the North and the ascendancy of the East and Ibo, were to be found on sale in the markets in the North. These and other petty humiliations were reported to the Attorney General of the Federation, Mr. Gabriel Onyuike, but thinking they were ‘harmless practical jokes’, he dismissed them, refusing to take any action”. Perhaps it is within this kind of toxic context, worsened by the perceived lopsidedness in the appointments and promotions in the various public services of the federation under General Aguiyi Ironsi, that such a gruesome bloodletting like the pogrom can be explained and understood. Over all, this is a worthy addition to the already massive literature on the epic life and times of Soyinka and will make rewarding reading for all.