 PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has lauded the sacrifices of Muslims and Christians in abiding by the COVID-19 guidelines for the good of society. President’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity Garba Shehu stated this on Thursday in a statement in Abuja. He said Buhari gave the commendation in his Sallah message to Muslims on the occasion of Eid-el-Kabir celebration. Buhari assured Nigerians that, “On our own part, we shall continue to provide economic reliefs to the people to minimise the unintended hardships these guidelines have inflicted”. The president reminded worshippers that COVID-19 is a worldwide affliction with churches and mosques closed and social distancing imposed to safeguard public health. He, therefore, reiterated his call on Nigerians to continue to exercise patience and understanding over the inconveniences created by the precautionary measures taken, especially the regulations on places of worship. He said the outbreak of coronavirus had made it “difficult for people to gather in places of worship as they are used to”, urging worshipers to follow the guidelines for the safety of their lives and loved ones. “The coronavirus has had devastating adverse impacts on our social, economic and spiritual lives. “The preventive guidelines we have introduced to contain the spread of this deadly disease have unfortunately limited people’s freedom to gather and worship in large numbers in mosques and churches. “Every measure that has been introduced to contain this disease may have its unintended consequences on the daily lives of our people, and I, therefore, call on Muslims and other faiths to continue to show more understanding with the government as we take correct steps to protect our people through the social distancing,” Buhari. Wishing Muslims a happy celebration, the President called on worshipers not to forget the symbolic significance of the sacrifices of the Eid-el-Kabir. Also on Thursrday,  Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Minister Muhammad Bello urged Muslims not to be complacent about COVID-19 during the festivity as it still remains a highly infectious and deadly disease. Bello, who said this as part of his Sallah message, congratulated the Muslim faithful on the celebration of Eid-el-Kabir and urged them to use the occasion to offer supplication to Almighty Allah for a quick end to the COVID-19 pandemic. He urged them to use the occasion to reach out to the needy, especially those who have been negatively impacted by the Coronavirus pandemic.