The Governor of Ekiti State Dr Kayode Fayemi has said a total of N320million will be injected into the state’s economy monthly when the Federal Government’s Special Public Works (SPW) programme kicks off. Fayemi said no fewer than 16,000 Ekiti indigenes will benefit from federal government’s project targeted at empowering 774,000 unemployed Nigerians across the 774 local governments in the country. The Governor made this disclosure on Tuesday in Ado Ekiti, during the official inauguration of members of Ekiti State FGN Public Work Committee. Fayemi, represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Mr Biodun Oyebanji, urged the selection committee to be transparent, fair and avoid sharp practices in the selection of willing applicants for the programme. The Governor, who stressed that applicants must be ready to put in their best in executing the assignment given them, advised that the nitty-gritty of the job be translated to local language in order for applicants to fully understand the motive behind the programme. He expressed optimistic that the federal government programme coupled with the social security scheme of his administration would lift people out of the poverty net. “The Chairman of the Committee has spoken about the mandate of the Committee and I concur with all he said, especially the aspect that spelt out, that this project is for all Ekiti Indigenes devoid of politics and also the issue that anybody that voluntarily applied for this assignment must be ready to work. “I am so glad that the chairman clearly enumerated the kind of job that would be done by the beneficiary of the programme, this is not a white collar job, so anybody that finds himself in this programme must be ready to work in the areas highlighted. Earlier, the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Biodun Omoleye said individuals who were not prepared to be engaged as unskilled personnel need not apply, adding that the programme was designed to create a facelift in the lives of the people. Omoleye commended President Muhammadu Buhari for initiating the programme as a measure to mitigate the negative effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on vulnerable unemployed Nigerians. The Chairman who assured that members of the Committee would be fair in the selection of applicants into the programme, revealed that successful applicants would be engaged in environmental and sanitation exercise to justify the value of the money they would be paid. He added that the Committee would not hesitate to relieve erring members who engaged in any unwholesome practices during the exercise. Explaining the economic importance of the programme to the State, Omoleye said; “It is noteworthy that this single intervention will raise Ekiti State revenue by close to one billion naira in three months, with each local government earning 60 million naira within the period. “The overall economic impact of the intervention is better imagined as it will also impact on generating additional income, through multiplier effects to well over 5,000 dependants and indirect beneficiaries.”