The Managing Director/CEO First Bank of Nigeria Limited, Adesola Adeduntan, has advised the bank’s workers to strive for excellence and contribute their best in making the bank retain its leadership position in the industry. Speaking at the FirstBank Management Associates Programme (FMAP) virtual graduation in Lagos, Adeduntan said the bank would continue to invest and reinvent its people to create a very sound institution with a strong succession plan. The bank chief said the participants’ intelligence quotient was not in doubt, but excelling in the workplace demands more than knowledge application. He said soft skills are required, which will entail how such staff members treat customers and fellow staff in the workplace. “Your IQ is almost taken for granted. The most important things are your soft skills, social quotient, emotional quotient and physical quotient. They are all about treating others well, equitably. Ensure that when people speak about you, they will say you are equitable. You need to combine those four in a very delicate manner.The programme is about creating continuous pipeline of people, that will continue to move the institution forward,” he said. He continued: “We need to continually revamp the institution. As an institution, we left a number of things for years. So, we need to work harder, smarter than our competitors.” The bank chief said there had been gaps in targeted succession plan, adding that the bank’s expectations from the participants were very high. Global Head, Human Resources at First Bank Nigeria Limited & Subsidiaries, Rosie Ebe-Arthur, advised the worker to invest in themselves. She said urged them to deliver the best customer services. “The way you invest in yourself is very important. Deliver the best customer services. Also, integrity and credibility are very important. It is so easy to lose away. You have to stand for something, or fall for anything. Take pride in yourself, and your work. Be responsible for the work you do. Detect problems and solve them before they escalate,” she said. Ebe-Arthur said with 126 years’ experience, FirstBank has a great heritage and is boldly reinventing the future.  “If you are doing something and you do not feel fear, that’s not good enough,” she said. Also, Chairman, First Academy Governing Council, Ini Ebong, said  the inaugural set started with 42 people but 28 stood the test of time and completed the programme. Ebong said people were assets needed for the growth and development of any establishment. He noted that the graudands had been equipped with all facets of what they need in the bank to be good leaders. “The programme is here to stay. We will continue to reinvest and reinvent our people to create the kind of leadership we want for the bank in future,” Ebong stated.