Though the Federal Ministry of Education has given go- ahead for resumption of JSS3 and SS3 classes in secondary schools, only SS3 classes will resume in Lagos, Ogun states. While Lagos Education Commissioner, Mrs. Folasade Adefisayo and Special Adviser to the Ogun State Governor on Education, Mrs. Ronke Soyombo confirmed resumption for only SS3 pupils, Ekiti Education Commissioner, Mr. Foluso Daramola said a decision would be taken about whether JSS3 classes would resume after a meeting with Governor Kayode Fayemi. “I am just coming from a meeting at the Governor’s office on the issue. We will make a statement on it,” she said. In Ogun State, Mrs. Soyombo said schools considered to be high risk would not be allowed to reopen. She said they would be identified through their responses documented on the online school reopening form. If they choose the ‘risky’ option (coded red) more than ‘moderate’ (yellow) or ‘none’ (green) in response to questions about the readiness of their facilities for resumption, they would have to improve before they resume. Schools have until Friday evening to fill and submit the form online. She said: “For schools that fill mostly red (risky) in all the fields concerning what they need for resumption, we will not reopen those schools. We may need to do contingency plan for their students.” Soyombo said Ogun Deputy Governor, who leads the committee on reopening of schools, flagged off a series of meetings with principals, teachers, school owners, and other stakeholders under the State Ministry of Education, Science and Technology on Monday in collaboration with the ministry of health. Federal Government Colleges (aka Unity Schools) will resume August 4 for SS3 pupils only. Mr. K. Oladejo, a teacher at Queen’s College Yaba, one of the 104 unity schools, said only SS3 pupils are expected when the school resumes. However, Director of Press and Public Relations, Federal Ministry of Education, Ben Gong, said the PTF announcement on whether JSS3 pupils would resume would be made on Thursday. “Announcements to that effect will be made on Thursday this week at the COVID-19 briefings,” he said. Heads of Examining bodies met with FME officials on Tuesday in Abuja to discuss scheduling of other examinations apart from the West African Senior School Certificate Examination. Public Relations Officer of the National Examinations Council (NECO) Azeez Sani said the examining body was ready to conduct the Basic Education Certificate Examination (BECE) once the FME gives the go- ahead.