 The outbreak of Coronavirus and subsequent lockdown of the economy, undoubtedly, increased data consumption by captive customers. The Internet Exchange Point of Nigeria (IXPN), the country’s internet gateway, confirmed that traffic through the telecoms operators saw a 15 per cent spike in traffic. According to data released by the Nigerian Communication Commission (NCC) for the period ending May 2020, indigenous mobile telecommunication company, Glo beat other competitors, as it gained 8.302 million data subscribers when it grew from 28.934 million in December 2019 to 37.236 million by the end of May 2020. MTN gained 4.75 million data subscribers; Airtel, which used to be the second-highest in subscribers growth after MTN, recorded 2.795 million, while 9mobile lost 812,827 subscribers during the period under review. NCC’s data for the period ending December 2019, showed that the largest mobile telecommunication company, MTN, gained 8.18 million data subscribers, and Airtel successfully edged out Glo in terms of data subscriber numbers, as the telco added 4.06 million subscribers over the indigenous brand. Competition between two largest data sellers, MTN and Airtel took different turns last year, as MTN recovered from the drop recorded during the year. The competition took a new twist this year (January – May 2020). Though MTN and Airtel, the two Nigeria’s largest data sellers, have 58.863 million data subscribers and 37.317 million subscribers respectively, Glo, which is the third-largest came from behind to outrun the ‘big players’, as more subscribers opted for the service of the indigenous ISP during the economic lockdown imposed by the Coronavirus pandemic. While MTN and Airtel managed to attract only 689,593 and 41,791 subscribers in March and April when the lockdown was at its peak, Glo it attracted new 2.072 million data subscribers within the period under review. However, in terms of market share, MTN maintains the lead, as it still controls 39.61per cent of the market (May 2020), followed by Glo with 27.12per cent, then Airtel with 26.83per cent while 9mobile with 6.37per cent had the least  within the same period. The advent of 4G/LTE in the global telecom industry was accompanied by expectations of fast internet speed. 4G is the fourth generation of wireless mobile telecommunications technology, succeeding 3G. Potential and current applications include amended mobile web access, IP telephony, gaming services, high-definition mobile TV, video conferencing, and 3D television.  Network strength In terms of Quality of Service (QoS), Glo has extensive 3G and 4G data coverage. Indeed, it was the first network to achieve nationwide 4G coverage. Experts in the industry said the superior data service by Glo is not a surprise as the telco in 2011 invested about $700million on GLO-1 submarine communications cable – a cable system along the west coast of Africa between Nigeria and the United Kingdom (UK). The submarine cable system is 9,800 km long, and became operational in 2011 with a minimum capacity of 640 Gbit/s. Glo data service is powered by this submarine cable which offers sufficient internet bandwidth, augmented by extensive fibre optic network spanning thousands of kilometers. All these have ensured reliable and quality data service delivery. The network is also known to carry out regular modernisation and upgrade of its facilities to guarantee pristine services. As a truly indigenous telco with the aim of democtaising telecoms services, affordability is at the crux of its service offerings. Globacom has over the years established a reputation for offering the most competitive data plans in the market and attractive packages with unmatched value. Its innovativeness came to the fore when the lockdown occasioned by the Covid-19 pandemic started – rolled out two unique plans, the Stay Home Data plan which gives subscribers up to 20 per cent more data and the Sunday Data plan, which offers 1.2GB for just N200 on Sundays. Nicknamed the Grandmaster of Data, Globacom, a few weeks ago increased the data volumes offered its esteemed subscribers in line with the company’s resolve to make life easier as humanity continues to battle the coronavirus pandemic. In a statement, Globacom announced mouth-watering data bonuses for existing and new subscribers who purchase any of its data plans including Night Volume which is operational between 12 midnight and 5 a.m. For instance, anybody who recharges with N50 will get additional data value of 18MB and an additional night bonus of 5MB, making a total of 50MB as against the earlier data value of 32MB. This is for both new and existing subscribers. New customers who recharge with N100 will be offered 35 MB night data bonus in addition to the usual 160MB, bringing the total to 195MB, while existing customers who used to get 105MB will have 150MB. N500 data plan gives an additional night bonus of 550MB to bring the total to 1.35GB from 1GB for existing customers, while new customers who normally got 1.85GB will now have 2.15GB data value. For N1,000 recharge, existing customers who got 2.5GB will now have a whopping 2.9 GB total value, while new subscribers who used to get 3.8GB will now receive a total of 4.2GB of data. The data bonuses are graduated to reach N20,000 recharge which now gives humongous 12 GB data bonus, bringing the total to 138GB for both existing and new customers instead of the former 115GB. The telco said the data values were revised to give the best benefit for money in terms of data volume at unique price points for subscribers. “The prevailing Covid-19 pandemic entails much more being done online by data users.  People require reliable and affordable internet services to be able to work, shop, study, socialise and do business transactions online.  This is why we have empowered them with additional data value for every recharge made on our network,” Globacom explained. It added that the plans which can be purchased by both existing and new customers can also be auto renewed. It advised interested customers to dial *777# for data plan of choice which can be purchased at http://hsi.glo.com adding that the bonus plans will work on modems, routers and any compatible device”. The advent of 4G/LTE in the global telecom industry was accompanied by expectations of fast internet speed. 4G is the fourth generation of wireless mobile telecommunications technology, succeeding 3G. Potential and current applications include amended mobile web access, IP telephony, gaming services, high-definition mobile TV, video conferencing, and 3D television. Statista.com, an online resource platform, said this year that 46.6 per cent of the Nigerian population were internet users. This share is projected to grow to 65.3 per cent in 2025. However, years down the line, the country is still faced with poor internet quality. A recent survey conducted on download speed experiences of subscribers across 87 countries including Nigeria by Network monitoring outfit, Opensignal, showed that congestion is messing with end user experience. The country was ranked 83 out of 87 of the countries surveyed in terms of download speed experience.