Inspector General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu, on Monday said 41, 863 officers and men across various ranks have been promoted since January 2019 when he took office. Adamu, who disclosed this at the decoration ceremony of newly promoted senior police officer at the Force Headquarters in Abuja, said the promotions were guided by the principles of seniority and merit, which was reflective of their record of discipline and invaluable experience. Adamu said the capacity of the human assets of any organization; particularly at strategic management level is fundamental to the attainment of the goals and mandates of such institution. He said no organization can advance beyond the competence and dedication of its strategic leaders, and neither can any organizational goals and plans be attained without a crop of highly committed personnel to drive the implementation process. Adamu said this position is even more critical for a law enforcement agency that is as a strategic to internal security as the Nigeria Police Force. This, he said, is because the rapidly changing dynamic of crime and the attendant increasing threat to security requires quality police managers that have the requisite professional knowledge, experience and competency to effectively provide leadership directed at managing such internal security realities. Adamu said the import of this is that any organization that does not, or delays in recognizing the potentials of its personnel and rewarding them by promoting those eligible as at when due, stands the risk of retaining crops of highly demotivated officers who would not be optimally dedicated to the standards and goals of the institution. “It is in cognizance of this that I have since my appointment as Inspector General of Police, been collaborating effectively with the Police Service Commission in ensuring that appropriate processes are placed to identify and promptly elevate deserving officers with unblemished service records for promotion,” he said. He urged the promoted officers to support the Nigeria Police in the attainment of its mandate, be civil to the citizens and be guided by the need to respect extant laws. Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, commended the IGP for the innovative and revolutionary style he has introduced since his appointment. Mustapha said the IGP has, as the lead agency for internal security, improved the coordination and synergy between security agencies so people would enjoy the safety they deserve as citizens. He told the newly promoted officers that the country is in difficult times and therefore demands complete commitment, cooperation, new vigor and resilience. “We are dealing with multifaceted challenges that have permeated their entire fabric of the society. What is demanded of you is that you must step up your actions because crime is dynamic,” he said. He gave them the assurance that President will always be there for the Police because he knows the entire responsibility as the lead agency for internal security is at their doorstep. The SGF said the President also demands for complete open and committed engagement with the civilian population. He expressed satisfaction with the progress on community policing, saying it is the duty of every individual to be a watchdog to the community. He said community policing would facilitate intelligence gathering, harmonious relationships and joint responsibility with the communities.