I had thought I wouldn’t be writing on the Coronavirus pandemic again after writing about five columns at different stages as the coronavirus pandemic hit Nigeria. I was in lockdown for four months in the Redemption Camp. I thank the Almighty God who gave the vision of the camp to Pastor E. A. Adeboye, the General Overseer of The Redeemed Christian Church of God. I also thank Pastor Adeboye who executed the vision with clinical flourish. When the inter-state roads were open, I quickly dashed to my house in Ibadan. What I saw in Ibadan worried me enormously. There seems to be no awareness of the morbidity and seriousness of this virus. I asked myself whether the people on the roads have misunderstood the now false impression that the virus only affects old people. It has now been proved that the virus is no respecter of age, gender or race. As I drove from Molete to my house in New Bodija Extension, a distance of about 10 kilometres, I saw very few people wearing the recommended protective face masks. Not until I reached old Bodija did I see people following the established safe protocols being promoted by the World Health Organization (WHO). This raises immediately two issues, namely, the absolute failure of government to enforce its own recommendations or is it absolute lack of government? Some people said the government was scared stiff about what the people might have done if the government imposed a total lockdown as was done in Lagos and Ogun states. The second issue is a class division in the understanding and prevention of the coronavirus. The poor masses feel the coronavirus cannot touch them because, as some of them said, it is the disease of the rich! It cannot possibly be that the masses cannot find reasonably-priced scarves to fold into face masks to cover their faces to prevent infecting people and being infected by others. Many of us old people who are scared to death by the coronavirus see what is happening globally perhaps because of our exposure to international media which perhaps the masses do not have access to. But is it not the duty of government to get their media to overwhelm the masses with information on mass education of our people about the coronavirus? The whole world is living in mortal fear of a medical problem that has no solution yet. There may be therapy and vaccines in future but no one is even certain any measure will work against the plague and yet we Africans are roaming about unprotected and asking the virus to come and get us. This makes black lives look cheap in the eyes of the international community. It reminds me of what the British colonial officials in Nigeria used to say about Nigerians not being concerned about lives. This made Sir Fredrick Lugard to give his soldiers orders to kill as many Nigerians as possible whenever there was a whiff of rebellion anywhere in the country. I was told that the Oyo State government was never really determined in its enforcement of measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus pandemic and its confrontation against the coronavirus and in its forcing the people to obey the well-established protocols against the coronavirus. This was unlike the measures taken in some of the neighbouring states like Ogun and Lagos states. Ekiti State also took draconian measures in imposing a lockdown on the people in other to protect them against a disease that has no cure. If we do not have original home-made strategy against the disease, we can at least borrow from international best practices. We don’t have to reinvent the wheel. I personally have kept relations and even grandchildren who are silent carriers of the virus away and at arms’ length from my home because as difficult as it may appear, I am following scientists’ advice. This  is the wrong time for anybody to die because of the fact that even one’s relation would be kept away from the sick person and if one dies and if the protocols are enforced, attendance at one’s burial will be kept only to immediate family members who in Lagos must not be more than 20 in number. If our people were made aware of this, they will take the situation much more seriously. If this problem has gotten out of hands in the United States and at one time in Italy, Spain, France, Great Britain and Russia with all their might and resources, one can only imagine what the situation will be in Nigeria where we have neither resources nor the manpower or discipline to confront this pandemic if we allow by our carelessness to let it  get out of hands. Many will not live to regret whatever errors of omission or commission we would be guilty of. I don’t think it is too late to make amends nationally but most especially at state and local levels. The federal government may have to declare a state of siege or emergency and invoke war powers that will give the president powers to issue executive orders to protect Nigerians. I suggest that everyone should be FORCED to wear face masks. This is because there is incontrovertible scientific evidence that wearing masks prevent transmission from the wearer to whoever he may be near and the wearer is also protected against infection. It follows therefore that nobody has the right or licence to infect another person with a disease that may lead to death. This disease is so novel that it has now been established that those who were infected and had regained their health do not develop herd immunity for more than a month. If we are not to suffer fatalities of about half a million souls who died in Nigeria during the 1918/1919 influenza virus when our population was less than 20 million, we must take extraordinary measures against this plague. If the same proportion that died in the influenza pandemic of 1918/1919 were to die as a result of this coronavirus pandemic, about five million people will die in Nigeria. God forbid! So, our governments owe us the duty of protection against this pandemic. It must therefore enact laws to make it mandatory for all citizens to wear masks. If the process of enacting laws is too cumbersome then the president and the governors must come to the protection of the citizens by giving executive orders which should be enforced by the enforcement agencies particularly the police and the law courts. It will then be left to those in charge of the police and the judiciary to ensure that their people do not turn this assignment into their cocoa farms! Perhaps imposing a fine on the spot as they do in Francophone Africa will reduce the bureaucracy of arrest, prosecution and judgement. Face masks can easily be sewn by tailors and it is also not too much for governments to buy face masks for the poorest of the poor. This will certainly be cheaper in the long run to massive deaths and even our inability to give the dead the decent African burial each person by tradition deserves. On the issue of stimulus for the economy, the federal government is not doing as much as it can do or as much as other governments in Africa are doing. It should be possible to ask the legislature to slash its expenses by 50 percent to free funds for this national emergency, the worst in our lifetime. Other arms of government should be called upon to make sacrifices. The humongous donations by the private sector should be properly accounted for and about 50 percent of it should be distributed on state basis to support the poorest of the poor. Failure to do this is courting future trouble and peoples’ rebellion. A stitch in time saves nine!