Health experts have stated unsafe abortions account for up to 10-40% of maternal deaths, among others in Nigeria. This was the consensus at the just concluded five-day online training workshop for feature writers and health reporters in Nigeria with the theme: How Family Planning contributes to Prevention of Unnecessary deaths of Women and babies and Slows Population Growth. Professor of Obstetrics and Gynaecology/ Director Africa Centre for Excellence for Population Health & Policy, Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital/ Bayero University, Kano, Hadiza Galadanci, who spoke on health and social benefits of contraception said: “Correct usage of contraception helps to control population growth, poor maternal and child health and poor socio-economic growth by supporting contraceptive use by all eligible women and girls”. Galadanci called for advocacy to stakeholders and sharing of correct information about contraception. Deputy Director Safe Motherhood, Federal Ministry of Health and National Desk Officer, Maternal Perinatal Death Surveillance and Response (MPDSR), Dr. Samuel Oyeniyi, recommended the integration of service delivery of Reproductive Maternal Newborn & Child Health+Nutrition (RMNCH+N) can reduce maternal and newborn deaths. National Coordinator, RMNCH+N, Professor Emmanuel Lufadeju, who spoke on the ‘Institutionalisation of MPDSR Implementation in Nigeria’ revealed Rotary International has initiated a meeting attended by the Federal Ministry of Health and other stakeholders to propose legislation on MPDSR at the National Assembly last year. “The emerging evidence from the practical lessons learnt from the operations of the web-based electronic platform for data management on MPDSR across Nigeria since 2015 shows that it has the potential to accelerate rapid reduction in maternal and perinatal death in the country. “It is expected that the bill which was submitted to the National Assembly last year be domesticated by year 2022,” he said. The training was organised by Rotary Action Group for Reproductive, Maternal & Child Health.