The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) Gombe Zonal office has secured the conviction of one Samuel Bulus Adamu the former Chairman of Shongom Local government area of Gombe state Adamu was charged before Justice N. I . Afolabi of Federal High Court Gombe on a seven count charge bordering on fraud, cheating and money laundering. A statement by the EFCC Zonal Public Relations Officer, Bello Bajoga said Bulus, a former chairman of Shongom Local Government Area of Gombe State was arraigned on the 9th of March, 2015 on Seven count charge and he pleaded not guilty. “His trouble started when a petition was submitted to EFCC Gombe Zonal office byTICAN Engineering Enterprises on the 9th May, 2011 on allegations bordering on fraud, cheating and money laundering to the tune of N97, 640, 000 by way of inflated contract for rural electrification of Keffi, Kwara, Gangamari, Daja, Gurwa, Gundale, Bebbulo, Kuka, and Damjigiri areas of Shongom local govt. from N66, 000, 000 which was initially approved by tender board of Gombe state to N97.6m,” he said. Bajoga said when the investigation was concluded, Bulus Adamu was charged to court. “During the trial, the prosecution A. M. Labaran and A. Y Muntaka called 4 witnesses in other to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt as required by law, and tendered several exhibits, while the defendant testified in his defence. “In its Judgement, the court found the defendant guilty of all the 7 counts on the amemded charge as the prosecution has discharged the duty placed on it by law,” he said. According to him, the court sentenced Adamu to 5 years imprisonment on counts 1, 2 and 4 without option of fine. On count 3, the court sentenced him to 7 years imprisonment without an option of fine. On counts 5, 6 and 7 the court sentenced him to 3 years imprisonment each without option of fine. He said the sentences are to commence from the 10th July, 2020, and will run conccurently. Justice Afolabi also ordered the convict to pay the sum of N31, 640, 000 to the coffers of Shongom local government through the registry of the court under the supervision of the EFCC.