 Instagram sensation, Olalekan ‘Agba Inaki’ Olaleye believes his depth and love for the Yoruba language is responsible for his fame and fortune. The last of a family of 11, Agba Inaki has established himself as one of the fast-rising Nigerian comedians making waves on Instagram. In a recent chat, Agba Inaki said, “I always had a passion for entertainment but was not sure the angle through which I will dive in. After my friend came out of the big brother house we started a record label together, I always promote our music through my page using the Yoruba Language because of my pride in the language. And then one day I made a motivational video where I was indirectly advising myself and it went viral. That was how the journey started, and I have not looked back since then.” On his depth of the Yoruba language, he said, I think the depth of my Yoruba speaking ability makes you think that I sound like an old man. The Yoruba language is very deep and it is one of the reasons I love promoting it. Despite living abroad.  “Most of my skits are usually associated with proverbs. I learned them all from listening and paying attention. Also my interest and will to always learn more. I grew up in Ogbomoso where everybody used to speak Yoruba; as it’s a deep Yoruba community and I was always attentive to new words then. So growing up in such an environment has been of great advantage to my skits.” The first class graduate of Business Administration from Ajayi Crowther University agrees that his rising profile has brought financial respite. “It is very profitable. Good monetary return, recognition by people you least expect, connection, and the joy of seeing people happy and affected by what you do are most of all. Also is coming up with ideas that thrill my fans; who I don’t call fans, but my family or my people. Well I know the things they always send me messages about if I have not posted, they even send me contents to work on and I always just play with new things and stay dynamic,” he says. The comic star noted that living outside the shores of Nigeria doesn’t affect his brand because the value of his content makes an impact on the lives of people and is not a source for debate. Hence, he’s well appreciated at home and abroad. 