Chairman of the Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee (CENCPC) of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Governor Mai Mala Buni has stated the party is back on the path of peace and progress. He said all the measures put in place by his committee were yielding fruitful results, stating “we are committed to build on these achievements.” The chairman spoke during inauguration of the Ondo State Primary Election and Election Appeal Committees at its Secretariat in Abuja. According to him: “Precisely three weeks ago when we assumed the leadership of our great party the All Progressives Congress (APC), we pledged to rescue, recover and rebuild a party based on a new confidence of trust, fairness and equal opportunity to all. “Since then, we have painstakingly taken some deliberate measures of true reconciliation and consultations to foster unity and strengthen the party. I am proud to state that these measures are now yielding fruitful results and, we are committed to build on these achievements. “The party is also carefully avoiding issues with the tendency of creating disaffection, animosity and division to reignite fresh crisis within its fold.” On Ondo primary election, Buni said the party has appointed reputable, credible and dependable chairmen and members for the Primary Election and Appeal Committees. He assured members of the committees “will be fair, transparent, impartial and upright to do justice to all the aspirants in the course of their assignments.” The chairman said the party was committed to renewing the mandate of the people of Ondo State. “As a party with great respect for internal democracy, we must appreciate and honour the popular choice for us to have a marketable candidate to be presented to the electorates during the election. There is no doubt; we are committed to renewing the mandate from the good people of Ondo State.” Cautioning all aspirants to respect rules governing the primary, Buni assured them of level playing ground and fairness during the exercise.