 The decision of associations from two of the Niger Delta’s largest ethnic groups, the Ijaw and Itsekiri, to join forces in their decades-long struggle for justice and equity in their oil-rich homelands is a heartwarming development which will however require a great deal of work if it is to succeed. Chief Mike Odeli of the Movement for Development of Itsekiri Oil and Gas Communities and Chief Godspower Gbenekema of the Ijaw Nation announced the new strategy at a press conference along with a host of demands. These include halting the current bidding for 57 marginal fields, the relocation of headquarters of international oil companies to the region, and the dissolution of the Interim Management Committee (IMC) of the beleaguered Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), among others. There can be no doubt that unity of purpose and coordination of strategy are essential if the Niger Delta’s communities are to attain their quest for full access to the oil resources with which they have been blessed. For too long, successive governments and oil companies have used the legendary quarrelsomeness of the region’s ethnic groups to perpetrate cynical divide-and-rule tactics which have enabled them to continue the despoliation of the area and the unsustainable exploitation of its resources. Ever since the emergence of the Niger Delta crisis in the early 1990s, the conflict has been distinguished as much by deadly struggles between the region’s indigenous groups as it was about confronting the oil companies and the governments which supported them. Different militant groups fought one another over access to pipelines, funds from oil companies and participation in the profitable bunkering business. The resultant conflict has led to widespread loss of life and destruction of property, and has aggravated the region’s security challenges. The warlords who have arisen as a result of the situation have further complicated the crisis by perverting the region’s just demands into criminal activity. Now that the need for unity has been acknowledged, it is crucial that it is established on solid foundations if it is to last. The first thing in this regard is to ensure that it is truly the unification of the two ethnic groups rather than merely an alliance of two organisations. The Movement for the Development of Itsekiri Oil and Gas Communities and Ijaw Nation are not among the largest or the best-known of the ethnic associations and advocacy groups in the Niger Delta. Are the Ijaw National Congress (INC), the Ijaw Youth Council (IYC), and the Itsekiri National Youth Council (INYC) also involved in efforts to unify the two ethnic groups? Are there any attempts to reach out to associations from other ethnic nationalities such as the Urhobo Progress Union (UPU)? If this measure is not to die a natural death, it must be as inclusive and far-reaching as possible. Then there is the question of tactics. The two associations warned that if their demands were not met, they would disrupt oil-exploration activities in their homelands. Given their welcome moves to unite, it is surprising that they would resort to the same actions that have failed in the past. It is obvious that any attempt at disruption will be met with overwhelming military force by the Federal Government and would only perpetuate the security challenges confronting the region. Nor is there any guarantee that other associations and militant groups would support such actions. A more innovative strategy might be to work more closely with the elected administrations and representatives of states in the Niger Delta. Instead of emphasising disruptive tactics, fully engaging with government representatives in association with other non-governmental and civil service organisations might be better able to put the relevant issues on the front burner. Another crucial step is to demand greater accountability from the federal and state governments in the Niger Delta. If a greater share of oil wealth accrues to the region, it will count for little if it is wasted due to incompetence and corruption. The ongoing NDDC debacle is a clear demonstration of the fact that the huge resources allocated to the commission have not been put to proper use by the Niger Delta indigenes entrusted with their management. In seeking to unite their efforts, Niger Delta advocacy groups have taken an important first step. They must ensure that they build upon it by consolidating the unification effort, by altering their tactics, and by demanding increased honesty and effectiveness from governments.