 The National Association of University Students (NAUS)  has  called for the reopening of all schools in the country in   a letter signed by its Senate President, Ibrahim Muhammad Lawal, and addressed to the Federal Ministry of Education on June 26. The Federal Ministry of Education  ordered the  immediate closure of tertiary institutions, secondary and primary schools nationwide in March  following the outbreak of Coronavirus in the country and as part of measures to contain its spread. Muhammad while speaking to CAMPUS LIFE, said that the association made the plea  as a result of the ban lifted on religious houses and the violations of the social distancing order by politicians He said: ‘’We have decided to push for all schools resumption because of different reasons. The NCDC announced recently that 85per cent to 95per cent  patients will recover.Some states have no coronavirus patients again. ‘’If worship centres can operate while obeying  social distancing rules, I think our schools can re-open and then we change the academic calendar”. Muhammad also urged  the Federal Government to scrap acceptance fees and also create isolation centres  in schools during the process of reopening. “The Federal Government should scrap acceptance fees and reduce schools fees. Schools should also provide hand sanitisers and encourage the use of face masks. ‘’The Federal Government should provide full electricity for evening classes  and create isolation centres in the teaching hospitals”, he said Speaking on the next step he’ll take if the Federal Government refuses to reopen schools, he said, “We  will make more consultation and reach out to some experts to analyse the reason given  by the Federal Government for continued closure. If it’s genuine, we have no option than to support it, but if it is not genuine, we will give them ultimatum to reopen our schools  or we will call for nation-wide non stop protest” He added that his next step would be determined after  receiving a response to his letter “We expect to receive a response soon from the Minister of Education and then we  know our next plan. We want to make the Federal Government know that we can’t continue with the policy of locking up our schools because no one can predict what will happen to future generations,” he said.