Oniru of Iruland Oba Gbolahan Lawal has warned those fomenting trouble within the Kingdom to desist or be punished. The monarch warned residents not to take laws into their hands.  He said he is committed to ensuring peace in the kingdom. The warning followed Thursday protests at the kingdom by descendants of the larger Oniru royal lineage. The protesters, about 100, were marching against alleged attempts by some children of the late Oba Idowu Abiodun to continue administration of the Oniru joint family properties and convert them for personal use. They said the late Abiodun’s sons sold land belonging to the family without giving account. According to them, family members who opposed the action were attacked by thugs acting on the accused orders, while others were illegally ejected from houses allocated to them in the estate. The protesters urged the Lagos State government and Oba Lawal to intervene and salvage the remaining family property. One of the protesters, Mrs. Khairat Obasola, said the ascendancy of Oba Lawal ended the ‘reign of terror’ visited on members of the larger royal family. She said: “For about 85 years, we have been in bondage of descendants of the Akiogun line. We are happy that the new Oniru, from the Abisogun line, brought us relief. Descendants of the Oniru lineage suffered under the reign of the late monarch, who ascended the throne illegally. “We dared not ask them how they were administering the joint inheritance belonging to all members of the family. They usually sent thugs after us and chased us out of our homes. The land on which the Oniru Estate is built belongs to all of us, but some children of the former monarch single-handedly sold the land and gave no account to the family.” The protesters also alleged that other children and grandchildren of the Oniru lineage were being denied admission into British International School (BIS) which is collectively owned by the Oniru Royal Family. “None of us could register our children at British International School. They don’t want our children to have equal opportunities with their children. This is a school jointly owned by the Oniru family. We hope the new king will look at this injustice and remedy the situation,” Alhaji Mukaila Onimisi, said.