Twenty-two year- old Rebecca Nengi Hampson from Bayelsa has emerged head of the BBNaija Lockdown edition Housemates. She emerged after all the Housemates gathered to vote for a ‘Head of House.’ As requested by Biggie, Nengi chose Wathoni to be her deputy. It was a game of dice rolling and boxes with instructions to determine the first HoH in the BBNaija Lockdown edition. All the 20 housemates took turns in throwing the dice and participated in the game at the kick-off. At the end of the participation, Neo and Nengi became the two major contenders for the HoH title. Neo and Nengi became the two Housemates, who were in contention for the most important position in the House after they tied at box 18. The two candidates rolled the dice again but ended in another tie. Yet again, the two contenders ended in a tie. Nengi eventually won the game. With this development, Nengi heads the House into this week’s task and activities. Earlier in their second day in the BBNaija house, Biggie reminded the 20 Housemates that they’re in competition with the launch of the first Head of House challenge in the season. As usual, the Head of House (HoH) title comes with some extra privileges. Nengi gets to sit on the throne-like HoH chair, gets information directly from Big Brother, and even reads out the day’s task to the other housemates. In the previous editions of the show, the previous Heads of House would get a tastefully designed room to themselves. This privilege was one of the reasons the HoH challenge is usually hotly contested for. Here’s what BBNaija Lockdown First HoH will enjoy This year, the HoH’s privileges will see some major upgrades. From today, July 20, the first Head of House, , will get to enjoy a lounge all to himself or herself. The HoH lounge will have a living room area, bedroom, fitted bathroom, and a private bathroom. Additionally, whoever emerges will be allowed to select a deputy to assist in the execution of duties and might get to add some BBNaira to both HoH and Deputy’s Betway Wallets.  