 DEAR Supreme Commander, It is with great pleasure and sense of fulfillment that I forward to you another of my series of reports on our ongoing battle against humanity. Coronavirus and the disease it causes, COVID-19, have struck fear into the hearts of millions of men and women across the globe. The global economy is in a state of paralysis. Key sectors of economies in rich and poor countries have shut down. Businesses have collapsed at an unprecedented rate. Multitudes have lost their jobs and millions have been plunged deeper into the mire of poverty. At least 15 million people worldwide have been infected by the virus with over 600,000 deaths. In Nigeria, my primary area of responsibility, close to 40, 000 cases have been reported and nearly 900 deaths. Of course, sir, we have inflicted much more devastation on the country where, as a result of their characteristic national lack of seriousness, less than half a million tests for the virus have been conducted. This means that many more asymptomatic persons in the country are going about with the disease undetected and infecting other people daily. I think we may record our greatest success in this viral offensive against mankind in Nigeria. Both members of the ruling class and the mass of the ordinary people treat our virus with arrogant disdain, laughable ignorance or outright indifference. This is, of course, very helpful to our cause. I am also happy to report that, despite the country’s rich natural pharmaceutical endowment with one of the world’s largest variety of plants and herbs that could be utilized to fight our virus with diligent investment in education and research, Nigeria’s leadership is waiting lazily for the developed countries to develop a vaccine and cure for our disease. I hope, sir, that you are able once in a while to watch the country’s Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19’s briefings on the fight against our virus in Nigeria. They routinely report new statistics of infected persons, recoveries and deaths. Hardly any mention is ever made of deliberate, coordinated and determined efforts to find local vaccines and cures. Here again, the country’s pathetic intellectual dependency and inferiority complex, a feature profoundly analyzed by one of their great intellectuals, the late Professor Claude Ake, in his book, ‘Social Science as Imperialism’, is on display. True, the search for vaccines and cures for our deadly viral weapon is going on at a feverish pace in the advanced countries of the world. However, our cause is greatly being served by the fact that the richest and most powerful country in the world, the United States, is currently led by the infantile and moronic Donald Trump. He is more concerned with his quest for reelection in November than the devastating effect our virus is having on his hapless country men and women. Without recourse to informed scientific opinion on our virus, he dismissed it as nothing but a common flu that would simply fizzle away. There has thus been a very heartwarming lack of leadership in the global superpower’s response to the crisis. Following the American President’s misleading prompting, many states are rushing to ease restrictions, open up their economies and permit large gatherings of people. Thus, the infection rates in the country and attendant deaths continue to soar daily. Lately, Trump has been forced to admit that the destructive effects of our virus in his country is likely to worsen before getting better. He has even begun occasionally to wear face masks and also urging his fellow citizens to do the same. Even then, our formidable battalions of Coronaviruses continue their deadly onslaught on America even as that country’s fearsome land, sea and air war arsenals watch on helplessly. I have, however, advised our viral war commanders to ensure that Trump remains uninfected by our virus. This is because we made a strategic error when we infected his fellow traveler in leadership myopia, Boris Johnson, with the disease. The British Prime Minister’s near death encounter with the virus has made him wiser and more cautious and restrained in leading the containment against our virus. But for that, he would have been as reckless as Trump in denying the reality of the disease, advocating easing of restrictions and opening up of the economy. To our utmost benefit, rather than offer leadership to the world in collectively and creatively responding to our viral onslaught against humanity, Trump is further polarizing and dividing the world for purely selfish reasons. It was with great astonishment but delight, for instance, that we received the news that Trump has frozen his country’s substantial funding for the World Health Organization (WHO), which ought to be at the forefront of any meaningful global response to our virus. I am confident that we will continue to wreak havoc on mankind for a considerable time to come. What countries like my primary area of jurisdiction, Nigeria, do not know is that even if a vaccine or cure is found for our virus in the advanced countries today, it is unlikely that cynical and self-centered leaders like Trump or Boris Johnson will allow such remedies to be available to the vast majority of the peoples of the world. Given the essentially greedy and exploitative capitalist economy prevalent in the world today, even when vaccines or cures are found, pharmaceutical multinationals that invested in the project will be more interested in recouping their investment than being sources of charity to humanity. It will continue to be profit before people and this is all so very good for us. I am forwarding to you video recordings of encounters in Nigeria’s National Assembly between the country’s Ministers of Labour and Employment as well as the Niger Delta, Dr Chris Ngige and Senator Godswill Akpabio, respectively, and investigative committees of the legislature. Both ministers allege mind boggling fraud and massive corruption in parastatal agencies under their watch, namely the National Social Investment Trust Fund (NSITF) and the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). The minsters in turn have been accused of no less stupendous acts of criminal self-enrichment. All this is, of course, to our benefit. No less dramatic is the ongoing investigation of fraud allegations against the suspended Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr Ibrahim Magu, by the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), Mr Abubakar Malami. All these indicate that, despite all the anti-corruption grandstanding, corruption is alive and well in Nigeria and this is very good for us. As long as corruption continues to thrive in the country, she will never have the first class health care system capable of responding effectively to pandemics like ours, which she can easily afford with selfless, diligent and competent leaders, given her huge resource endowment. Lastly, sir, a major boost was given to our onslaught against humanity in the Nigerian sector when President Muhammadu Buhari was persuaded by aggrieved and extremely ambitious elements in the All Progressives Congress (APC) to dissolve the Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee (NWC) of the ruling party for no just cause. With an interim caretaker committee in place, the party is slated to hold its National Convention in November to elect new officers to run its affairs. This means that rather than concentrating on governance and particularly in containing our rampaging virus in the country, various individuals, forces and tendencies in the ruling party in all the states will be dissipating energy and focus on trying to seize control of the party structure in November. From all indications, the prospects of our virus are very bright in Nigeria. 