Activist lawyer, Femi Falana (SAN) on Friday said he is not a member of a pressure group named Nigerian Consultative Forum (NCF) recently launched by some notable Nigerians. He gave this clarification in a statement in Lagos on Friday titled: “I am not involved in NCF”. He said at the appropriate time, he would come before Nigerians to present a new platform which would be predicated upon pro-masses oriented anti-poverty programme. He however commended all efforts aimed at creating an alternative platform with the potential of lifting the long suffering people of Nigeria from economic and political stupor. He also recognised the fact that some of the promoters of the NCF are people who are motivated by the common good noting that many of them have made profound sacrifices to make Nigeria a better place to live. According to him: “In this light I commend what appears to be the genuine motive of the organisers of the National Consultative Forum. “However, I observe that my name has been mentioned as one of the pillars behind this initiative. “While I appreciate the concern of the leadership of the new group to enlist my support, I wish to say that at no time have I been consulted neither did I attend the meeting where the forum was launched. “I appreciate the almost desperate situation progressive Nigerians find themselves in the bid to save Nigeria from what looks like an imminent shipwreck. This might have informed the haste with which many honest and dedicated hands find themselves. “This clarification should not be conceived as opposition to all honest efforts designed to rescue Nigeria from the claws of abject poverty and increasing loss of hope. “I wish to add that there are several efforts I have been involved lately and I believe there is a growing perspective that all efforts should be harmonised for maximum impact. “At the appropriate time, we shall come before Nigerians to present the new platform which would be predicated upon pro-masses oriented anti-poverty programme, and hopefully, the founders of the new initiative will be proud not to be left out.”