 A new partnership between a firm, Leadspace, and the University of Arizona in the United States offers opportunity for Nigerians to study for programmes of the university remotely. Through the Global Campus partnership, students can earn bachelors and master’s degrees of the university here in Nigeria starting from August. In a statement, University of Arizona President, Robert Robbins, noted that the initiative was ideal presently considering the restrictions on movement caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. “Not only does Global Campus help solve the mobility challenges of today caused by COVID-19, it is a meaningful and long-term effort at meeting the UN Sustainable Development Goal of providing accessible quality education to the world,” said Robbins. Leadspace CEO, Taiwo Ajetunmobi, said students who enrol could get scholarship.  He added that they would get access to comfortable learning spaces in various locations across Nigeria. “Education is single most impactful investment anyone (parent or student) can make. We are thrilled to introduce such a timely, flexible, and high quality education opportunity to the millions of young students across Nigeria seeking a world class university education,” he said. Brent White, Vice Provost of Global Affairs at University of Arizona, said the pandemic had altered the face of international education – making online education necessary anywhere across the world. “The events that caused the current situation in international education have hastened the dawn of a new post-mobility world in which physical travel is unnecessary for the creation and transmission of knowledge across borders,” he said. “Almost overnight, courses have transitioned to online, and international students are continuing to study while remaining safe at home in their own countries. We want to help them achieve their dreams of a U.S. degree, no matter the circumstances.” Students who choose this initiative can decide to study full online for their degrees or take online courses and eventually transition to study at the University of Arizona or other universities in the U.S.a