 The Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH)  has held its first virtual meeting on managing COVID-19. It drew about 250 participants from various parts of the country and the United Kingdom. Its Chief Medical Director, Prof. Adetokunbo Fabamwo, who appreciated the speakers, the Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, and the LASUTH Board, stressed that the hospital planned to take the lead the education on the disease. Presenting a paper on “Preventing Covid-19 infection among hospital workers during and after the pandemic era,” Olumuyiwa Odusanya, a professor of Public Health, described the pandemic as a risk for health workers, just like firefighters. Giving an overview of people who have been infected globally, Odusanya led the participants to observe a minute silence for those health workers who have lost their lives in the line of duty. He however praised those who are still in the forefront of fighting the pandemic.  He said health workers are in great risk of infectious disease, citing risk factors that included insufficient or inappropriate use of personal protective equipment (PPE), incorrect screening, and environmental control, shortage of staff and nonpayment of salaries, among others. The public health expert added that the risks could be reduced by preventive measures like triage, availability and proper use of PPE, environmental cleaning, training of staff, surveillance and monitoring, assuming responsibility and protecting self. Also, a Professor of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, LUTH, Bosede Afolabi, presented an overview of the pandemic in relation to LUTH’s Obstetrics and Gynaecology Department. She advised doctors not to subject pregnant women to caesarian session, stressing that there is no evidence of vertical transmission in pregnant women. She prescribed early isolation, use of oxygen, avoidance of fluid overload and early ICU referrals. Recounting his experience, a Consultant Emergency Medicine Physician, University of Northeast, United Kingdom(UK), Dr. Kayode Adeboye, analysed the incidence of Covid-19 in the UK. He added that planning for these incidences involved staffing, provision of PPE and good communication as these would go a long way to save lives and stop the escalation of the incidence.