Popular gospel singer, Evangelist Funmi Aragbaiye, speaks with Tosin Adesile on her life at 66. The President of Gospel Musician Association of Nigeria, (GOMAN) also offered advice to gospel ministers on doing God’s work during COVID-19. Excerpts:  How do you feel at 66? I feel thankful to God Almighty for sparing my life to witness 66. I started almost 35 years ago. Since I became a celebrity, one has passed through a lot of challenges. I never knew I can be as relevant as I or I will even be alive to see this day. So, I am thanking God for his grace upon my life. How has it been singing all these years? Those evergreen songs you hear, most of them were composed in 1983 when God gave me a vision. He opened my eyes to see what is happening in Nigeria ahead. I started counting from the time when my first album was released which was in 1988. Though, I have been singing since early 70s when I was in Ilorin, Kwara state. What has been happening with GOMAN? We have been able to change the face of the association since we took over. We started with an elaborate inauguration after that we have held several workshops and seminars. The last one we did, we had it at the National Arts Theatre, Iganmu which featured youth empowerment as part of efforts for national development. In fact, the President of Nigeria was ably represented at that occasion. We have organised prayers for the nation and for security and I can tell that a week after the session, kidnapping and banditry subsided in South West. A week to that time or month before that time, we had top people being kidnapped along Akoko, Owo Road, Ilesha and they all stopped. These are signs that God answers our prayers and supplications. Any plans to collaborate with one of the young artistes? Are you planning to come out with something different in form of collaboration? Yes! I am planning to do that if not for the coronavirus pandemic, which necessitated the lockdown and safety guidelines, I would had done something this year. I will drop something by God’s next year. Advice for gospel music minister during COVID-19? My advice to them is they should use this period as an opportunity to compose new songs and get closer to God. You know since we are on lockdown, we should utilise the time to do more beautiful things. Do you have any bible verse you want to send out this period? Isaiah 66: 1 says “Arise and shine for light has come…” All upcoming gospel artists should arise and shine. Nigeria should arise and shine even at this period. After lockdown, instead of everybody going down, God will lift all of us up.