 Armed bandits have again launched two attacks within 12 hours on three villages of Jema’a and Kaura local government areas of Kaduna State, killing not less than 10 persons. However, in reaction to the latest attacks, Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai, had on Friday night extended the 24-hour-curfew imposed on the earlier troubled Zango-Kataf to Jema’a and Kaura local government areas. The governor on his Twitter handle on Friday night, said that, “at the request of security agencies, the Kaduna State Government has extended to Jema’a and Kaura LGAs the 24-hour curfew that is in force in Kauru and Zangon Kataf LGAs to help contain violence, restore law and order in the area. The Nation gathered that the gunmen attacked Zikpak, Ungwan Masara, in Fantsuam Chiefdom of Jema’a Local Government and Maraban Kagoro, in Kaura LGA around 7pm on Friday. The attack on the three communities left nine persons dead immediately, while about 12 people were said to have sustained varying degrees of injuries and many houses burnt. An eyewitness told our Correspondent that, the gunmen who were more than 40 invaded the villages and started shooting sporadically, killing people at sight. The source however said that, one of the people who sustained injuries in the Friday night attack later died in the hospital yesterday morning, raising the casualty figure to 10. A source, who was at Zikpak to access this situation, yesterday told The Nation that he escaped by the whiskers when the gunmen suddenly launched another attack on Saturday morning. According to him, “I was at Zikpak this morning to interview survivors of the Friday night attack. In fact, the youth leader had taken me and a colleague round the village to see the scenes. So, we stood in front of a house to do interview, suddenly we started hearing gunshots from the bush at the back of the house. We had to run for our dear lives.” He however said that, Saturday morning’s attack was successfully repelled by men of the vigilante group and no casualty was recorded. When contacted, the Kaduna State Police Command’s Public Relations Officer, ASP Muhammad Jalige, told our correspondent that he was going to get details about the attacks and get to The Nation.