The leadership of the Abia State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has disassociated itself from the lawsuit filed by one Kalu Agu against President Muhammadu Buhari and Governor Mai Mala Buni led Caretaker Committee. In a release by the Publicity Secretary of the party, Comrade Benedict Godson, the party said that their support for the Chairman of caretaker Committee and President Buhari is “unshakeable”. According to Godson, the said Youth leader of Abia APC, challenging the dissolution of the Comrade Adams Oshiomhole led leadership doesn’t have the consent or backing of the party in the state. “Let it be on record that we are never against our former National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole is a man of integrity. “We hail him for accepting the decision of the party in good faith and he’ll forever be remembered for his great contributions towards the growth of democracy in Nigeria. “We also wish to state categorically that the said Agu is not known to us and is not one of us. APC Youth Leader in Abia State is Prince Chibueze Apugo from Umuahia North LGA. Any other person claiming the position is an imposter. “We, therefore, use this medium to disassociate our Chapter of the party from a publication quoting one Mr. Kalu Agu, a purported Youth leader of Abia APC who is challenging the dissolution of the Comrade Adams Oshiomhole led National Working Committee (NWC) by the National Executive Council (NEC) in court.” “Abia APC urge our National leadership, the media and the members of the public to ignore the man involved in the publication because he’s sponsored by some persons to make unnecessary noise which will definitely lead to nowhere. “If our ex-National Chairman wanted a legal battle, we all know him, he could have done it himself. For someone who claims to be an APC member and leader to wake up one morning and begin to mess himself up using the name of Abia APC is unacceptable to us. “We reiterate, we don’t know him, he’s not one of us and the public should ignore him because he’s only acting a poorly written script.”