 KWARA State government said on Wednesday its officials, who had contact with the late Chief of Staff, Aminu Adisa Logun, in the past two weeks, have proceeded on self-isolation while their samples are taken for COVID-19 test. Logun died on Tuesday evening from COVID-19 complications. His remains were interred on Wednesday at his Ilorin GRA residence. Commissioner for Communication Henrietta Adenike Afolabi-Oshatimehin, in a statement yesterday, said: “Cabinet members, personal staff of the late Chief of Staff, and some medical personnel, who have recently had varying degrees of contacts with the late technocrat, have now proceeded on self-isolation,” The statement said the government has also suspended physical meetings of any kind on official matters until further notice, directing increased use of virtual platforms for such engagements to limit physical contacts and emulate Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq. “It is important to note that the governor last had any physical contact with the late Chief of Staff on April 6 during the launch of the conditional cash transfer for the elderly. The governor’s subsequent meetings with the late CoS had all been virtual. Similarly, the state executive council meetings and most official engagements have consistently been held through virtual platforms in line with the COVID-19 protocols. The government also directed that persons who have had contact with the late chief of staff in the last 14 days to proceed to the COVID-19 Infectious Disease Centre/Hospital at Sobi, Ilorin. This is to ensure immediate collection of their samples for the test. According to Commissioner for Health Dr. Raji Razak, “such persons will thereafter proceed to self-isolate until the result of their test is communicated to them”. Minister of Information and Culture Lai Mohammed on Wednesday expressed shock over the demise of Logun. In a statement issued in Abuja, the minister commiserated with the family of the deceased as well as the Ilorin Emirate. Mohammed said Logun will be remembered for his service to the people of Kwara state, and prayed that God will grant repose to his soul.