 A 14-year-old girl (name withheld), has fled her parents’ home in Biogbolo, Yenagoa Local Government Area of Bayelsa State, to cohabit with her Facebook lover, Victory Age, aged 17. Victory, along with his friend, identified simply as Gospel, were paraded at State Police Headquarters, Yenagoa, for harbouring the underage SSS1 pupil for one month without parents’ consent. It was however learnt that the minor fled from their home because of alleged maltreatment she was receiving from her stepmother in her father’s house. The minor explained that she abandoned home to meet her Facebook friend, saying she did not tell her parents but only dropped a letter for them. She confirmed that during her stay with his online friend, who later handed over to his friend, Gospel, they had sex romps, though they were consensual sexual activities. She stated: “I went to meet a friend I met on the Facebook who resides at Onopa. When he saw me with my bags, he was shocked. He asked why I was carrying my bags and what was going to happen. I told him I was going to stay with him for one week. “He asked whether I was sure and whether my parents won’t look for me, I said no. He then agreed and we went to book for a hotel. We stayed in the hotel for three days and thereafter, we went to his friend. His friend carried me to Azikoro, where I have been staying for one month. “I am 14. I slept with him and his friend for one month. They did not force me to have sex with them. I had sex with them intentionally.” On his own part, Victory Age, who is from Ogbia LGA of the state, said they met on Facebook. He said: “She was my friend on Facebook. I haven’t seen her before and I wanted to see her. I told her to come and meet me at my place at Onopa. When I called her again, she said she was already on my street and I went to meet her. “When I met her, I saw her with her bags. I was surprised. I told her I only wanted to see her because we have not seen each other before. I asked why she came with her clothes, she told me she was staying with her aunt and did not like the way she was being maltreated and that she just wanted to stay one week with me. “I had small money on me and I agreed and we went to book a hotel room. My friend, Gospel, came to see me and we paid for the hotel room. I was with her in the hotel for two days before I went back home. I asked her to go home that I did not have any money again. I did not know what transpired after that. I only had sex with her three times. From there, my friend, Gospel, took over.”