 THE Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT), Edo State wing, has reaffirmed its support for the re-election of Governor Godwin Obaseki. It hailed the giant strides of the Obaseki administration in the education sector. Edo NUT, through its Chairman, Pius Okhueleigbe and Assistant Secretary-General Mike Itua claimed that the  governor had been recording unprecedented transformation of basic and technical education in Edo State, in the little over three years of his administration. The union urged residents to support Obaseki and Shaibu to consolidate on the achievements recorded in their first tenure. It dissociated itself from an online publication purportedly made by one Suleiman Abdul, who claimed to be a teacher in Akoko Edo Local Government, which it said was aimed at maligning the union and Obaseki. It described the publication as the handiwork of mischief makers. NUT said: “The union conducted an investigation into the source of the malicious publication and discovered that there is no teacher in Akoko Edo Local Government called Suleiman Abdul, which means the publication is the handiwork of mischief makers. “Obaseki came tops as the 2019 best governor in Nigeria, due to his uncommon and unprecedented transformation of basic and technical education in Edo State within three years of his administration, which received and has continued to receive national and international commendation and adoption. The award was never purchased, but given by a very reputable teachers’ organisation to a very responsive, humane, people-centred and knowledge-driven governor. “Edo NUT’s membership register does not have Suleiman Abdul as a member. Therefore, as an impostor, the writer of the publication does not have any locus standi to write for or on behalf of Edo teachers or NUT, Edo wing. Such powers, in accordance with the union’s constitution, are vested in the state chairman and secretary. “The pending issue of Edo teachers’ welfare is already being attended to by the union and the state government. Therefore, any individual or group that has misgivings or hatred against Edo government or the governor and his appointees should not hide under any cloak or drag the NUT into it, but should seek redress by exploring the laws of the land.” Edo NUT urged the public to disregard the publication and its intents.