The Acting Head, Department of Biological Sciences, Benson Idahosa University (BIU), Dr. Emmanuel  Odjadjare, has said teaching and learning using online platforms will be a plus for Nigeria’s education system if it complements conventional learning methods. He, however, said  that online learning could not replace face-to-face approach. “A number of institutions have started deploying digital technology even prior to COVID-19 with the installation of smart classrooms. The COVID-19 pandemic fast-tracked the process. That said, it is important to point out that teaching and learning using online platforms can only complement the traditional method that requires physical interaction between teachers and learners in classrooms. The classroom could be made smarter by using technology; but online teaching platforms cannot at this time replace the more effective traditional approach,” he said. The Associate Professor said the pandemic had fast tracked the growth of e-learning in the education system. He said the skills, processes and experiences gained at this time would be of immense value to improving the quality of teaching, learning and research when things normalise. On whether it is advisable for schools to resume, he said Nigerian schools and indeed the economy should reopen as long as the measures put in place by the NCDC are strictly adhered to. “All the government needs to do in reopening schools is to ensure strict compliance to the guidelines put in place by the NCDC. Schools that comply and continue to comply with the NCDC guidelines could be allowed to reopen and remain open. Those who do not meet the requirements of the NCDC guideline should remain closed until they do the needful.” He added that the solution to curbing the spread of the virus does not necessarily lie in lockdown, but what is done while the lockdown is in place. He said Lockdown should be considered as a temporary stop-gap to allow government and other stakeholders put appropriate measures in place to arrest the pandemic. Once such measures are in place, the polity including schools should open without delay.