The last cabin row of aircraft would be designated as isolation centre for air travellers that exhibit symptoms of coronavirus, the Federal Government has declared. Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, disclosed this on Monday during the Presidential Task Force (PFT) briefing on COVID-19. Siriki said this was part of the safety measures taken against coronavirus as the nation prepares for resumption of domestic flights. He explained that cabin staffers have been trained to carry out necessary precautions and protocols in case of any emergency. Also, passengers would no longer be served refreshment to reduce the level of contact with cabin staff. The Minister also said Governors, Ministers, National Assembly members, military men and judiciary men will not be allowed into the terminal building with their aides who are no travelling. Following the loss made due to the closure of the airports for about three months, the Minister also said all businesses in charge of air economy in the country would be given opportunity to access a two-fold palliative from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the ministry of finance and national planning. On how the sector will comply with COVID-19 protocols, he said: “We are complying with international standards and many countries have resumed. In Africa, more than five countries have resumed domestic flight and around the world, about 100 countries have commenced domestic operations. “We delayed in commencing in Nigeria because we wanted to get it right and we didn’t want to risk anybody’s life. “We will allow the last row in the cabin of the aircraft free so that we can isolate just in case we see something that looks like symptoms within the cabin so that we don’t create panic. “We will carry you behind and isolate you there. Our cabin staff are well trained to look out for this. I told you that cabin crew are not just trained to serve teas.” On whether refreshment would be served or not, he said: “For the domestic operations, there will be no food so that we reduce the level of contamination.” On the seating arrangement, he said: “To maintain safe flight, civil aviation has ensured that the air within the cabin is filtered and circulated. “Once you are in the aircraft, if there is space, we will space it and if there is no space, we will sit normally. “Because the wearing of masks and other protocols are all backed by science to ensure that we are safe, so also, our decision is backed by science and findings. “Risk of contamination is highly reduced when you are in the cabin. As the cabin air is coming down into the cabin, it washes from up, down to the bottom and we are mostly facing front while sitting. “Because we are all facing one direction and the airflow is from up to down and because of that, the chances of the viruses and bacteria gaining way to you are reduced. “The air will be circulated about 30 to 35 times within one hour. So, it is safe to say that no matter how we sit, from the scientific viewpoint, we are safe in the aircraft cabin. He also noted that flights will be sequenced to avoid overcrowding. “We will also sequence our arrival and departure flights to avoid the terminal buildings being flooded. We will ensure that flights are sequenced in order for us to know the number of people we are emptying into our building per time and ensure that the physical distance is respected.”