 THE Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC) on Monday accused Attorney-General of the Federation Abubakar Malami (SAN) of lacking commitment to the anti-graft war. It said a power bloc to which Malami belongs wants acting chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EEFC) Ibrahim Magu removed. PACAC called on President Muhammadu Buhari to be mindful of the power bloc’s “shenanigans” and urged him not to harm his anti-graft crusade. In a “preliminary reaction” to Magu’s appearance before a panel, a PACAC member Prof Femi Odekunle, said in a statement that while the Committee had not met, it believed that the power bloc “is not really interested in, or in support of, Buhari’s anti-corruption fight”. Odekunle said Malami’s memo calling for Magu’s removal and the EFCC’s boss’ invitation “seem an outcome of power-play by power blocs in the corridors of power in which Malami appears to be an arrow-head or major agent”. He pointed to Magu’s non-confirmation by the 8th Assembly, which he said was orchestrated by the power bloc and supported by security reports issued by the Department of State Services (DSS). The PACAC member also noted the non-resubmission of Magu’s name for confirmation since May, 2019 “despite the apparent willingness of the 9th Assembly to consider it this time around”. The statement reads: “One must take cognisance of the alleged memo referred to earlier i.e by Malami concerning alleged corrupt practices by Magu, along with his own nominations for Magu’s replacement. “Again, we cannot forget Malami’s demand for certain high profile casefiles from Magu which the latter has been resisting. “The position of PACAC is that while Magu or any official of whatever status must be nailed if found to be corrupt, the President must be careful not to shoot its anti-corruption fight /modest achievements in the foot. “He must not forget that the EFCC under Magu has been the administration’s anti-corruption poster-face. “It may not be contestable that Malami has been exploiting his alleged loyalty and closeness to the President for his personal /power bloc agenda. “For, to the best of PACAC’s knowledge and observations, Malami has not manifested any genuine commitment to the anti-corruption fight.”  