Two persons have been killed and five others abducted in Ekoli Edda Community, Afikpo South local government area of Ebonyi state The victims, according to the Police, were allegedlly attacked by gunmen from neighbouring Biase local government area of Cross River state. The two border communities have been having a running battle over a palm plantation at the borders. Police Spokesman in Ebonyi, Loveth Odah in statement, said the deceased are a couple. She gave their names as Ndukwe Okoroafor 55 and his wife Paulina Ndukwe, 49. She said: “On June 30 at about 4pm the DPO Afikpo South received a distress call that gunmen from Biase LGA of Cross River State attacked some persons at Erei Palm Plantation located at the boundary between Ekoli Edda in Afikpo South L.G.A of Ebonyi State and Biase LGA of Cross River State”. “Following the report, the DPO quickly contacted the youth leader of Ekoli Edda who also informed him that an eye witness to the alleged attack one Kalu Ndukwe narrowly escaped with bullet wounds but saw his father one Ndukwe Okoroafor ‘m’ aged about 55yrs and his mother one Paulina Ndukwe ‘f’ aged about 49yrs been slaughtered by the attackers”. The spokesman said gunmen also abducted five others namely Esther Ikwo, Elizabeth Ikwo, Chinechere Nnachi ‘Ogbonna Aku ‘and Sunday Ogbuu Ama The victims, according to the spokesman, were said to have been taken to unknown destination together with the corpse of Mr. and Mrs. Ndukwe Okoroafor. Mrs. Odah said the commissioner of Police, Philip Maku, condemned the attack which he described as a hideous and barbaric act. She said the CP have dispatched a combine team of Policemen and soldiers to the area with a view to rescuing the abducted persons unhurt and arrest the perpetrators of the heinous crime. “Furthermore, the CP has enjoined residents of the area especially the youths, to maintain peace, avoid taking law into their hands or acting in ways that could jeopardize investigation into the matter” According to the spokesman, the CP has also made it clear that the command under his watch will leave no stone unturned to bring the culprits of the heinous crime to book. “Meanwhile, preliminary investigation revealed that the attack is as result of resurgence of the longstanding communal feud between the people of Ekoli Edda in Afikpo South L.G.A of Ebonyi State and Biase L.G.A of Cross River State over the Palm Plantation” “To this end, the good people of Ebonyi State have been enjoined to remain law abiding and assist the Police with credible information that will lead to the arrest of the culprits,” she added