The efforts to recover public patrimonies that were unlawfully taken away remain on course, Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq said last Tuesday, reiterating that his administration would at all time prioritise people’s welfare. He said: “Our administration is pursuing a developmental agenda that is centred around the people. We are determined to give our people a new lease of life. This would be made easier in an atmosphere of peace and tranquility,” AbdulRazaq said in an address to the newly inaugurated members of the Judicial Service Commission (JSC) in Ilorin, the state capital. “But peace is not sustainable without justice and fairness. For too long, our people have had their patrimony taken away in the most brazen and fraudulent circumstances. We have a historic duty to restore sanity and return to the people what belonged to them. That recovery process, while long drawn, has since begun in the most lawful manner.” Members of the JSC are Titus Olasupo Ashaolu (SAN); Lawal Victor Jimoh; Dr. Saliu Ajibola Ajia; and Monde Aliyu Umar. The governor urged the appointees to justify the trust reposed in them. He added: “My congratulations to you is borne out of the fact that your choice is a manifestation of what you have stood for over the years. You have all distinguished yourself as senior citizens with track records of integrity and selfless service to our people.  “I therefore urge you to always consider this record in everything that you do as members of this statutory commission.” Barrister Titus Ashaolu, who spoke on behalf of the JSC members, thanked the governor for the appointment, adding: “We express our sincere appreciation for finding us worthy of this appointment. We promise to do our best as members of the JSC not to disappoint you in your efforts to uplift the state and the progress of the judiciary.” The governor also swore in members of the House of Assembly Service Commission who are: Yusuf AbdulRasheed Oluwafemi (Chairman); Gbemisola Mercy Oguntimehin; Kolawole Bashirat; Ganiyu Taofiq Adekunle; and Mohammed Sabi Saidu. AbdulRazaq urged the members to rededicate themselves to the service of the people. He said: “It is a call to serve the people. Just like your letter of appointment may have stated, this appointment is a public trust.  You are therefore expected to discharge your duties with honesty, fairness, and accountability. “The public has reposed so much confidence in our administration. Every appointee of the Otoge government must therefore conduct themselves in manners that align with public expectations. We will not condone impunity or betrayal of public trust under any guise. We will also be prudent in the management of public resources.” Oluwafemi, speaking for his colleagues, thanked AbdulRazaq for reposing so much trust in youths and women. 