In this encounter, Valentine Ozigbo, a frontline governorship aspirant in Anambra State on the ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the immediate past President of Transcorp Plc, spoke on why he is in politics, Associate Editor, Sam Egburonu, reports I hunger for a better Nigeria and a better place for the black man in the world. I am fortunate to have been widely travelled and widely exposed and I have been in conversations around the world where we’re just asking ‘what is wrong with a black man?’ Is something wrong with us? We’ve argued from both sides of the divide, and I am convinced that absolutely nothing is wrong. God didn’t create us unequal. We are not deficient and we are not incapacitated. Whatever we need to improve our circumstances, I believe that we are endowed with those. If nothing else, even more than those we probably seem to feel that they are better placed. And this is even more relevant to what is going on around the world. But why must we always be the victim? Why must we always be at the shorter end of the stick? What is wrong with us? Why did even our forefathers allow themselves to be colonized? And why do we keep repeating this story? The people that have the kind of history that we shared, they’ve moved on. Why is our case the same all the time? And when you ask this question, you’re almost tempted to believe that there’s something wrong. You may be tempted to conclude that something is wrong, especially when you hear the words of the former leader of apartheid, Botha, in South Africa. ‘Give the freedom, give them power and they’d kill themselves’. And we keep doing things and acting in the manner. And even in the corporate world, we even face the same thing. Sometimes, we do well individually but collectively, we seem to have issues. And for me, I summarise the issues as follows: Nothing is wrong with us. If we start today to do the right things, we’d experience the magic that we desire. We can change the narrative of a black man in the world. And we can do this just by looking at several things: One leadership; we need to make sure we start to entrench competency in everything that we do. We have to make it our mantra, our culture. And that takes me to the second one. We need to imbibe what I call the culture of continuous improvement. That’s a culture that challenges the status quo. When we talk about let’s restructure Nigeria, people are saying is it necessary or not? Why? And that is very sad because I don’t even see why we cannot restructure Nigeria every year. It should be such a dynamic system. And that’s what we do in the corporate world. Even when we are number one in anything that we do, we’re asking, how do we improve on that? We don’t want to remain at that level. And here you are, with a failed system and we are asking, what is wrong with us? We are living in a competitive world where you have to run faster than those ahead of you if you must catch up. And we are comfortable with being last and doing nothing. I said this because I don’t see sufficient hunger for the change. And this is part of what is driving me into gong for politics. And I feel that if the story of a black man can ever be changed, we must get it right in Nigeria. If we must change our story in Nigeria, Igbos have a bigger role to play than we are currently playing. We have to strategically position that opportunity and change Nigeria for good in many ways and not necessarily just when we become presidents. But there are many other things we can do. And the starting point is looking at us at the state level. And for me, I think Anambra is so crucial to talk about what we can bring as Igbos. I think Anambra is pivotal to this change that we’re talking about. And I think we are so blessed as a people with the intellect, resources, capacity, whatever we want to make of our areas, the Southeast. I see Anambra State more from the blessings we have and the missed opportunities that we’ve had. One of the biggest failures we’ve had is lack of cohesion as a people. I started by saying earlier that Anambra is endowed with a lot. And in the world of today, knowledge is the most important. Knowledge is power. But when you don’t come together, you miss loads of opportunities. And I’m emphasizing this because I want to see myself as that unifier that would eventually get everybody on board. You know, I’ve also seen a lot of people who have governed Anambra talk about, you know in Anambra you have a lot of billionaires, why are you not investing at home. We haven’t made Anambra such a friendly state to invest in. I don’t believe in coercing people to invest at home. I believe in making it easy for people to invest at home; making sure that businesses at home are succeeding, we’d become the envy of others.