President Muhammadu Buhari has said no nation can develop with infrastructural deficit. The President spoke on Tuesday at the State House in Abuja, while hosting the outgoing Ambassador of the People’s Republic of China to Nigeria, Dr Zhou Pingjian, at a virtual farewell audience. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, the President expressed his appreciation to Chinese President Xi Jinping for supporting Nigeria’s quest to fill the infrastructure gap. “Please, convey our appreciation to President Xi Jinping for the contribution of China towards reversing the infrastructure deficit we suffer in the areas of rail, roads, airports and power. There’s no way a country can develop without these things,” he said.  The President noted that China had played its role effectively in all the Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) signed with Nigeria, “and we quite appreciate it”. President Buhari said he had followed the “highly mobile” activities of Dr Pingjian in the past four years “and you have visited all our 36 states. I see you all over the media: you have the energy and health, and you have performed effectively”. The outgoing Ambassador, who had been in the country since September 2016, described his tour of duty as “highly rewarding time”. He expressed appreciation to the Federal Government and Nigerians for accommodating him. “I have been privileged to visit all the 36 states of the country. I have seen the remarkable progress being made and, under your leadership, I am confident that Nigeria will fly higher,” Pingjian said. The Ambassador noted that in about 50 years of Nigeria-China relations, “this is the best time we have had”. He added: “You have visited China twice, showed us solidarity at critical times, particularly when COVID-19 broke out, and you always personally attend the commissioning of projects Nigeria does in alliance with China.” Pingjian said the One China Policy was dear to his country and lauded Nigeria for its support. “To keep China one is a task that must be done. We will appreciate your continued support, and I will remain a goodwill ambassador of Nigeria,” he said.