Two-term Minister of Science and Technology, Major Gen. Sam Momah (Rtd), who celebrated his 77th birthday on Monday, the 6th of July 2020, frowns at IPOB, MASSOB and other groups campaigning for a divided Nigeria. The pioneer Director at National War College, who fought during the Nigeria civil war, prays that Nigeria will never repeat the bitter experience. In this interview with PAUL UKPABIO, Momah, who, who recently launched his 13th published book, titled, “Restructuring to save Nigeria from Post-Oil Disintegration,” said time has come for genuine restructuring in Nigeria. Excerpts At 77, many are bogged down with ill health but you are still bustling with energy and you still write. What is it like to be your age? I feel great. As a Christian, one prays to make the Biblical three scores and 10 (70 years) and now that 7 years has been added, it is a great bonus for which I thank God and I still hope God will continue to keep me alive for as long as He, the Almighty God, pleases. Indeed, time really flies and I can’t believe I’m 77 years old but I thank God I used my years productively, serving my country in various capacities, including being a minister for five years. I worked hard in an effort to uplift the black race, who, since “I can’t breathe” cry by George Floyd have now woken up from slumber. I therefore advise the youths like Nnamdi Kanu of IPOB not to waste their time pursuing shadow or in disruptive ventures because before they know it, they are old with no positive legacy to bequeath to coming generation. IPOB members should instead gear their efforts and energy on nation building and any Nigerian’s grievances should be solved by peaceful means. Biafra was laid to rest on 15th January 1970 when the civil war ended and should therefore be allowed to rest in perfect peace. At 77, I’m advising IPOB and such militant groups to stop tarnishing the image of south easterners and thereby, ruining the chances of a south easterner becoming soonest the President of Nigeria. Out of your 77 years on earth, one would expect 2020 to be your worst! But still you got an achievement, a new book! What can you say of 2020 so far? 2020 is definitely not my worst year. At least I clocked 77 and had the peace of mind to nurture and eventually deliver my precious 12th baby whose name is “Why We Must Restructure Nigeria Now”. During the Nigerian civil war, I did none of that; instead, we killed instead of loving each other. And so, the civil war years were my worst years on earth. It should and must not happen again. And that’s why I am totally against IPOB and have been very persistent in calling for restructuring because that’s the only platform on which modern Nigeria, the United States of Nigeria, of our dream will emerge. You were already a soldier during the civil war in Nigeria, do you regret that war? The Nigerian civil war could and should have been avoided. It was absolutely not necessary. Gen. Ironsi was killed because he introduced Unitary System of Government and today, it is that same Unitary System of Government he was killed for that we are practising under the deceitful name of federalism. This is abhorrent and repugnant. It is a shameful self-deceit (419) to have a product whose label is federalism but the content is unitarism. Do you think that Nigeria learnt from that war? Nigeria has not learnt from the civil war. For instance, the ring leader of the Jan 1966 coup, Major Chukwuma Nzeogwu, confessed that the coup was to remove the 10 percenters but today what do we have in some cases – 100 percenters. The then Eastern Region claimed it seceded because of insecurity and the killings but today the killings have continued because the killers, instead of being hanged are paid ransom in dollars and thereafter, at tax payers expense, go through pampered de-radicalisation, lavish rehabilitation and posh re-integration. Again, this is why restructuring is imperative because it will start with having a constitutional conference that will spell out the terms of us living together. We will thus provide for the people of Nigeria a Constitution of the People of Nigeria, by the People of Nigeria and for the People of Nigeria Do you think our youths in late 20s and 30s can rule this nation as Gowon, Murtala and Obasanjo did? I doubt. The dynamics of life has been changed by our civil war and that’s why I am very much against IPOB, MASSOB and so on stoking the embers of war. We, the older generation saw Nigeria’s Golden Age and hence concentrate on what we can do for our country but the present generations are so civil-war warped in their thinking that all they want is what their country must do for them. Unfortunately, they believe that the nation owes them a living and they have not learnt the wisdom of being frugal and the need to take one step at a time. This is why in my latest book I called for the setting up of Re-orientation Organisation of Nigeria (RON) which will undertake the ethical re-orientation of Nigerians from their lopsided value system to patriotic ethos. RON will use English and Nigerian languages in propagating its doctrines. You are an apostle of one Nigeria; sincerely would you say there’s still hope for a one Nigeria considering the present state of the nation? Faith in one Nigeria is not a matter of hope but a function of necessity. This is so because managing a bad marriage is far better than managing a divorce because divorce is a broken egg that produces nothing but stench. And so, we have no choice in the matter. We should continue to manage ourselves and wait for a messiah or something such as COVID-19 which has taught Nigerians the importance of self-reliance and the necessity of achieving more with less. President Muhammadu Buhari’s government has just removed the EFCC boss from office over alleged grave financial matters; what can you say about the fight against corruption so far by this administration? Corruption is assuming the worst taxonomic scale and will not stop until, firstly, we purify our Police and Judiciary; secondly until we tackle the root causes of corruption which epitomizes itself in our lack of justice, equity and fairness. For instance, federal character in the admission of our children to secondary and tertiary institutions by admitting those with lower marks as against those with higher marks; inculcate cheating culture in our children, which in turn breeds corruption. You worked with Buhari at close quarters some years ago; what can you say about the Buhari you knew then and the Buhari of today? President Muhammadu Buhari is still the man I know and Nigerians should note that sorting out the complexity and enormity of the Nigeria’s problems is not easy. Nigeria should wait until he completes his eight years, because the outcome of a race is determined at the end of the race. Who does it better, an ex-military president or a core politician civilian president? Make no mistake about it, the military leaders are professionally patriotic but unfortunately while in governance, they get adulterated by politicians. And so, there is no comparism between the two. In effect, the ex-military leaders will always do better. That’s why in US, they organise some form of military training for their university students and that was what our NYSC was supposed to achieve until it got messed up. That’s why the Boys Scouts and Girls Guide are organised. For politics to improve, bread and butter politics must stop. Politics should be for service and our legislators will receive part-time allowance not salary because politics is not a profession. You have five doctors among your children; did you force them to be doctors? Medicine was purely their choice. I didn’t force them. They usually top their class and so, they felt like proving a point by going into a course that is toughest in gaining admission in our universities. What motivated you to write yet another book? Two issues motivated me: first, the worsening state of the nation with regards to insecurity and the down-turn in the economy which global climate change and Covid-19 have battered; secondly, I wanted to drive home the point that restructuring has nothing to do with resource control and to emphasize that since 12th Dec 2015, restructuring has become a global issue because at the Paris Climate Change Conference of 12th Dec 2016 195 countries including Nigeria agreed to replace by 2030, fossil energy (Crude Oil) with renewable energy (electricity, solar, wind, hydro, biomas and so on, clean sources of energy). This policy will render our crude oil, which provides about 80 percent of our national revenue, virtually valueless by 2030. It is therefore very urgent to find alternative to oil. What do you miss most which you are not able to do at your age? I miss not being able to play lawn tennis and also, being diabetic, I can no longer enjoy eating yam, or having red wine, particularly Red Martini, before a sumptuous meal or palm-wine in our indigenous wine-carrying wedding ceremonies.