 THE funeral for Sir James Bamidele Famure, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Screen-Wyse Nigeria Ltd, an aluminium construction company, will hold between July 24 and 25. Sir Famure, who died on Saturday, was also the founder of the Seat of Wisdom Private School, a charity primary school in Ogun State. He was 68. He is survived by wife, Margaret, four children and two grandchildren. The Lying-in-State for the Orin-Ekiti-born philanthropist will hold next Thursday at his Block 18, LSDPC Medium Estate Phase1, Ijaye Road, Ogba, Lagos residence. The Requiem Mass will hold the following day at St Theresa’s Catholic Church, Ifako Ijaiye, Lagos. It will be followed by interment at the Ipaja Cemetery & Vaults, Ayobo, Lagos. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, well-wishers are urged to watch the funeral via Zoom. The late JBF, as he was called by friends, was born into the family of Pa Thomas and Lucy Famure, both from Orin-Ekiti. After completing his secondary school, young JBF worked with several companies to sponsor his education at the University of Lagos. He studied Business Administration. He joined UTC Plc in 1977 where he was poached by Hunter Douglas in Holland, a giant in the Aluminium Construction Industry. He left for The Netherlands to train and work with them briefly. He was equally trained in Britain before returning to Nigeria to continue with UTC and was appointed its Production Manager to pioneer Aluminium Construction in the country. He later rose to the management cadre before retiring in 1997 after 20 years of service. After his retirement, he founded Screen-Wyse Nigeria Ltd, an Aluminium Construction firm which he managed till his last days. He equally founded Seat of Wisdom Private School where pupils paid little or no fees to keep helpless and promising children off the streets. The late Famure was a devoted Catholic member of the Lagos Archdiocese, a Patron to several societies in the church and a dedicated member of the Order of Knights of St Mulumba where he rose to become the Metro Chancellor of the Lagos Metropolitan Council.