Period poverty is a challenge many girls and women face in some parts of the world. It is worse in developing countries such as Nigeria. Women and teenage girls are overcoming this challenge with free sanitary pads and conditional cash transfer, writes YEKEEN AKINWALE. Ajebe Gladys’ glimpse wanders as she admits there is truth to the quote “different strokes for different folks”. 40-year-old Gladys lost one of her limbs about 17 years ago in an accident while on her way to work in Abuja, Nigeria’s capital. “I was on my way to work in 2003…. when I had an accident on a motorcycle,” she recounts the fatal accident. While her right limb is halved as a result of the accident and can only walk with the aid of an old pair of crutches, the mother of two now faces hurdles every month when her menstrual period starts. “I don’t look forward to my menstrual period,” Gladys said of the hardship she undergoes during that natural phenomenon. The US Office on Women Health (OWH) describes menstruation as a woman’s monthly bleeding, often called your period.” Menstruation is a natural process, without which human existence would be threatened but it is a nightmare for many women across the world who lack access to basic hygiene and sanitation during their periods. Although Gladys knows it is a natural process, she says it is also a constant reminder of the many troubles she needs to contend with. There are basic rules or procedures to follow during menstruation which are difficult for women in Gladys’ condition. The OWH recommends that menstruating women should try to change or rinse their feminine hygiene product before it becomes soaked through or full. But for the mother of two, to use sanitary pads during that period is a luxury she cannot afford. “Due to financial constraints, I rarely use sanitary pads. I fold a piece of clothing sometimes with tissue paper to absorb my menstruation,” she said with a wide defiant smile that seems to betray her condition. “During this period, I avoid going out to prevent being stained and making a mess of myself.” With an income too meagre to cater for her needs and that of her two children, Gladys says, buying sanitary pad takes a backseat on her scale of preference where feeding, clothing and shelter prominently features. Being unable to walk on her two legs compounds her case. A former showroom attendant earning N7000 monthly as salary before the fatal auto accident in 2003, she also detests going out during her monthly period due to lack of a safe place to change her improvised sanitary pads. Back then, when she walked on her two legs, she says she could afford sanitary pads but has since been financially constrained. Gladys however, complains of poor access to the toilet. With obviously outgrown prosthetics, she says accessing toilet facilities in her house or public is often difficult and inconveniencing. Women, girls still haunted by period poverty Like Gladys, Amiru Najatu, 20, shares the same fate every month whenever she is menstruating. Her limbs were paralysed when she was a child due to a polio infection. This she says compounds her access to basic menstrual hygiene and sanitary products. For close to five years that she has been experiencing menstruation, Najatu who lives off almsgiving says she has never used a sanitary pad. Her physical disability and means of livelihood underscores the level of period poverty she faces. “I use the money from begging to buy food and water to clean myself but I cannot buy sanitary pads from the money because what I realise daily is not enough,” Najatu says of her proceeds from alms-begging. Described as the inability of menstruators to afford proper menstrual hygiene products including tampons and sanitary pads during menstruation, period poverty has been a nagging issue in Nigeria. Experts say this usually predisposes menstruating women and girls to unhygienic practices, like using rough newspaper, fabric, or cloth napkins in place of pads. Period poverty is very serious in our time. Working with vulnerable women and children in several communities has opened my eyes to a lot, says Wanda Adu, Executive Director, Wanda Adu Foundation (WAF). The Foundation takes care of vulnerable women and girls. Adu said women who are not sure of a meal in a day for their children cannot afford to buy sanitary towels. “There is extreme poverty in Nigeria and so pad is seen as a luxury in communities. “They are left with forgone alternatives. Should they buy food or pads? There and then they conclude that food is more important than pad. Hence they improvise,” she said With a staggering statistics of 82 million people living below the poverty line of N137,430 in a year, according to the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), purchasing menstruation sanitation products becomes a tall order for most women and girls. Undoubtedly, the impact of poverty is widespread affecting both men and women but its effect on women and girls is disproportionately high. A report by UNICEF in 2017 said menstruating school girls in Nigeria faced many challenges which affected their ability to manage their menstruation in a dignified and hygienic way. Availability and adequacy of WASH facilities, adequacy and flow of information on menstrual hygiene management and access to materials for hygienic management of menstruation all impacted girls’ experience of menstruation, UNICEF said. Danjuma Janet, 18 and a former student of Government Secondary School, Jabi in Abuja recalls when she started menstruating at the age of 16 and she was shocked. She was told by her mother to shrug the shock off, as it is an indication that she is now a woman. Her mother provided her some sanitary pads but it didn’t last long because of the financial implication. Janet says her parents who run a shop of daily needs experience recession in their business and could not afford to provide her pads. Janet went to visit a friend when she first experienced her menstruation and was given a rag to clean up. “I went to visit my friend and I was told that my cloth was stained at the back. Initially I was scared but they offered me a rag to clean up. My mother later gave me a pad to use,” she says of her first experience of menstruation. Janet resigned to fate ? making use of pieces of unused materials or rags each month she menstruates. But this has brought her shame and ridicule, as her friends mock her in school whenever she gets stained. She said a sanitary pad costs N300 depending on the brand and size. This is difficult for her to get since she is not working and cannot afford it. “It’s not easy to buy a pad everyday,” she says. “Sometimes I use rag when I cannot afford to buy a pad because it costs between N300 to N400.” She recalled how she was embarrassed on a day she got stained in school at the age of 16. “I left school early that day, because I felt so embarrassed when my friends called my attention to my stained skirt,” Janet recalls. Light at the end of the tunnel The UNICEF in the 2017 report recommended that there should be facilitation of accurate and sufficient information on menstruation hygiene management to disabuse minds of people on the myths and taboos and encourage safe, hygienic and dignified management of menstruation. Other key recommended actions were provision of appropriate and adequate water, sanitation and hygiene facilities in schools; support to access affordable reusable sanitary pads and mobilization of policy and decision makers to promote open discussion of menstrual hygiene management to reduce stigma. Recently, Nigeria’s Ministry of Women Affairs flagged off the distribution of one million sanitary pads to women and teenage girls across the country as part of government’s efforts to address period poverty among women and girls. “This project is hinged on the fact that girls’ and women’s choices of menstrual hygiene materials are often limited by costs, availability and social norms,” said Paulen Tallen, Minister of Women Affairs at the 2020 Menstrual Hygiene Day observed in Kado village, Abuja on May 28. “Therefore, providing access to feminine hygiene products will go a long way to solve the problem to a great extent.” At the event which was organized by the ministry with support from Water Supply Sanitation and Collaborative Council (WSSCC) and other stakeholders, 4000 sanitary pads were distributed to women and girls at the village. Each beneficiary received at least four packs of sanitary towels. Elizabeth Jeiyol, WSSCC National Coordinator for Nigeria believes poor knowledge and understanding of menstruation may lead to unsafe hygienic practices for women and girls. Jeiyol says all stakeholders must team up to change the negative social norms surrounding menstruation. “Poor knowledge and understanding of menstruation may lead to unsafe hygienic practices for women and girls,” she said. “It is not a gender thing – but a basic human right issue – and together we can empower all women and girls to realise their full potentials everywhere in the world.” She maintains that effective menstrual hygiene has direct and indirect effects on the overall well-being of women and girls – in the context of education, empowerment and health. According to her, women and girls face continuous mental, physical and health traumas during their periods – as a result of discriminatory social norms, cultural taboos, supernatural beliefs, gender inequality, and limited access to basic services such as WASH facilities in private and public spaces which leads to ‘Period Poverty’ for women and girls across the world – especially in developing countries like Nigeria. Chizoma Opara, acting Coordinator of the Clean Nigeria: Use the Toilet Campaign says it is important to iinstitutionalize menstrual health and hygiene management at all levels in Nigeria. This, Opara said can be achieved by putting an end to open defecation in Nigeria through the provision of hygiene facilities for the populace particularly women and girls during their menstrual period. Wanda Adu says every woman and girl deserves a free sanitary pad every month, saying “teenage girls will not go to school for fear of stigmatization and shaming if they happen to be stained.” On the occasion of 2019 international women’s day she says her Foundation while giving out sanitary products to 150 women and girls in several communities in Abuja witnessed struggle by the women and girls to get the products. Teenage girls, women may be considered for cash transfer to boost access to menstrual hygiene management If the government acts by its words, there may be relief for women and teenage girls regarding period poverty. Sadiya Umar Farouq, Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development recently said the Ministry would find a way to incorporate teenage girls and poor women in the country into its Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT) programme to support them in purchasing all the necessary hygiene materials for their monthly menstrual period. Farouq spoke in Abuja on May 28 at an event marking the 2020 World Menstrual Hygiene organized by the Ministry of Women Affairs with support from Water Supply Sanitation and Collaborative Council (WSSCC) and other stakeholders According to her, the Ministry was ready to collaborate with the Ministry of Women Affairs to support the vulnerable groups especially women and teenage girls, using the CCT scheme. The CCT scheme is designed to benefit poor and vulnerable households with a monthly stipend of N5000; and beneficiaries are trained and provided financial and technical support to start small businesses. “We have a programme in the ministry, it is called Conditional Cash Transfer. The programme is specifically for farmers that need this kind of support and it is being given to women heads of families. So that they can take care of themselves and other members of the family including teenage girls in the family,” the Minister said. “We are going to find ways to tinker with this programme to see that the teenage girls are also incorporated by giving them monthly stipends to support them and so that they are able to earn something that they can use to buy all the necessary hygiene materials that they need during this period of their lives.” She lamented that most teenage girls are subjected to all forms of hardships when they menstruate. Moving forward, poor and menstruating women and girls who cannot afford to purchase menstrual hygiene products when on their menstrual period can heave a sigh of relief, according to Farouq “Some of them are not able to go to school or participate fully in society, always at home because of the hardship that they go through on days that they observe their menstrual period,” the Minister said. Farouq further lauded efforts made by the ministry of Women Affairs led by Dame Pauline Tallen in addressing period poverty in women and girls.