 Sweet mother,
I no go forget you;
For dis suffer wey you 
Suffer for me eh
If I no sleep, my
Mother no go sleep;
If I no chop, my 
Mother no go chop;
She no dey tire eh;
Sweet mother ah ah
Sweet mother eeh  AS this evergreen vintage song filtered through the radio into my tired ears as I drove home on Friday night, a colleague who was riding in the car with me made an off the cut but genuine comment. That comment upset me greatly. He said this song by Nico Mbaga only addressed yesterday’s mothers. He said today’s mothers are too business inclined to have time for their children. Women these days, he added, have no time for their children. Women these days, he added, have no conscience because they are too money conscious. Honestly, if not for the fear of God, I would have dropped him off right in the middle of nowhere so he would have had to trek home! To say I was angry is an understatement. I was livid. I mean, with the harsh economic conditions of these times; do we expect the income to come from only the man? It is not possible. The fact that most mothers of nowadays are more career minded is not for selfish reasons. Far from it. For me, the saying that after the love of God Almighty to mankind, the second greatest kind of love is the love of mother to her child subsists also today. In my opinion, nothing has changed. The mother’s love is constant. Nothing can change it. No mother is happy to stay hours away from her babies; but duty calls. The challenge working mothers face, unknown to many, is the feeling of guilt that sets in. no matter how fat a mother’s bank account is; it cannot be compared to the time she spends with her child or children. Guilt. It can come without warning; suddenly you feel as if you have been punched in the stomach. Most working mothers feel guilty at one time or another. They may be running late for a parents Teachers Association’s meeting and interprete the look on the faces of other parents as a condemnation for coming late because they feel the P. T. A meeting should be important enough to attract on time attendance. Guilt may also come after a comment from your child, ”But mummy, must you go to work today too? Other people’s mummies are already around! Or ”Mummy, why are you buying me meat pie to take to school when Jide’s mummy makes him Jollof rice or beans and fried plaintain”! As working mothers, it is important to feel comfortable with your decisions to be working. Too many times, however, working mothers feel they need to defend their choice. Working mother and the society have to address the ongoing debate. Some people feel that by working, mothers are taking something valuable away from their children’s time while others feel that working mothers really give more to children. They provide them a sense of pride and accomplishment in addition to being a role model. Each family situation is different, what may work for the family down the street, may not be the best for your family. And so, comparing your situation to theirs is like comparing apples to oranges.  Studies have shown that there is no developmental problems in children whose mother worked outside the home. The studies further show that though ”the mother is an important source of care then, but she does not have to be there 24 hours a day to build a strong relationship with her child.” Below are some of the key points the studies show: Development is not delayed when a mother works outside the home A mother’s personality, including their beliefs and the quality of their parenting is more important than the amount of time spent with their children. Working mothers spend more time with their children on their days off work. Working mothers spend less time on household chores and leisure activities. There were no differences in social behavior, cognitive ability and language development whether mothers stayed at home or worked. An earlier study also concludes that a ”mother’s employment outside the home has no significant negative effect on her children. According to this study: When mother’s worked long hours, there were small differences in testing for vocabulary and individual student achievement, however these differences disappear overtime. Children whose mothers returned to work when they were three to four years old, instead of as infants showed a high rate of compliance with authority. However, this too disappeared over time and later showed no differences. There was no significant negative impact on children when mothers worked outside the home. The result of these two studies can help relieve the guilt that many working mothers feel. Their children will thrive based not on how much time they spend together, but on the quality of time spent together. Mothers that are comfortable with their decisions, are confident in their abilities, and provide loving and nurturing homes have the best chance of raising well – adjusted children, whether they work outside the home or stay at home. If one balances out the exceptionally good mothers, the ordinary mothers and the exceptionally bad mothers; then probably on balance, having a working mother does not significantly impact children at a cognitive or behavioral level in general. Unfortunately, it is not just the time spent away from the children that is of significance, it is the quality of the energy drain from working that probably most impacts children. For most mothers today, working full time is not a choice, it is a requirement, as it is for fathers. And mothers who work full time or more will find that they have slaved away in order to provide a certain lifestyle and have produced children who feel little need to visit their mothers as they move on to adulthood because that closeness of connection is just not there. The summary of this piece is that there should be a balance in whatever we do.