Since the setting up of the Interim Management Committee of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, Nigerians have been inundated on a daily basis with stories of grand heist and corruption within and outside the NDDC. So far, it’s been a war of words between Senator Godswill Akpabio, the Minister for Niger Delta Affairs and the management of the IMC on one hand and the National Assembly, with each accusing the other. The genesis of the matter began sometime in May, when the National Assembly summoned the Minister and the IMC over what it deemed as corrupt activities in the commission. This came through a motion which was sponsored by Hon. Peter Akpatason( APC) the Deputy Majority Leader of the House which stated that the NDDC has since the coming of the IMC had been inundated with petitions, all calling for a probe of the NDDC. Also brought to the public sphere through the motion was the allegation that the IMC had spent a whooping N40 bn in a space of three months, breaching sections 19, 25, 41 and 42 of the Public Procurement Act of 2007. The last position was also the position of the Senate which immediately set up a seven- member ad-hoc committee to probe what it termed as “financial recklessness” of the IMC. The committee was saddled with the mandate of probing how the NDDC spent N40 billion in so short a time as well as investigate other transactions it had carried out within such a period, the IMC was also accused for using arbitrary powers not delegated to it in the sacking, suspension and harassment of workers of the NDDC. However, the IMC not wanting to be browbeaten by the salvos of the National Assembly in turn accused both committees of the legislative body responsible for the oversight of the NDDC of working against it for certain pecuniary interests. It also accused the committees of wanting to frustrate the forensic audit of the NDDC as mandated by President Muhammadu Buhari. These allegations by the IMC were made public by the Acting Managing Director of the NDDC, Professor Kemebradikumo Pondei in a press conference at the NDDC headquarters in Port Harcourt. Pondei described the probes as a distraction, stating: “We suspect that the probe being trumpeted by the National Assembly is not for altruistic reasons but an attempt by some members to arm twist the Interim Management Committee. We have faced so much pressure from some members of the National Assembly not to send certain files to forensic auditors. We fear that this will compromise the integrity of the exercise and have refused to do their bidding. “We have also faced pressure from some members of the National Assembly to pay for 132 jobs which have no proof of execution. We have refused to pay out N6.4 billion for those jobs. We believe that an IMC set up as a cleansing structure cannot become part of the old story of rot.” Pondei wondered why the probe was coming at a time when the IMC had limited time to deliver on its mandate. He has even gone on to blame the NDDC’s inability to deliver on the door steps of the National Assembly which he has accused of using variety of methods to frustrate the agency. Such methods include delaying passage of the budget of the NDDC which incapacitated its ability to properly implement programmes and projects captured within such a budget. There was also the issue of the distortion of budgets , insertion of projects by the members of the oversight committees Pondei even alleged that when such budgets are passed and require harmonization by both chambers, the National Assembly committees hold the NDDC to ransom by asking it to pay contractors before the approval would be transmitted. Heavily fingered as the lead actor in frustrating the IMC is the Senator representing Delta North, Peter Nwaoboshi who is accused of netting in 3.6 billion Naira using different companies as fronts in the year 2016 alone. According to the IMC the items were then delivered to Nwaoboshi and then resold to the Delta State Government and other states. This revelation however tails the accusation by Nwaoboshi accusing Akpabio of inserting contracts in the NDDC budget of 2017 to the tune of 500 million Naira. Of a truth, these allegations and counter allegations point to one thing alone and that is the fact that the NDDC which is supposed to mitigate the sufferings of the people of the Niger Delta, who for years have been exploited is serving the interests of a few people at the detriment of the people of the Niger Delta. So while millions of people in the Niger Delta suffer from the untold hardship of destroyed eco systems as a result of oil exploration, a few men, whom I will describe as “accidents of history” smile to the banks on the heavy tears of those whose hopes have long been forlorn. We are not even dwelling on whether the jobs were effectively completed or not, no! The anger stems from the fact that one man can sit somewhere and award contracts to himself. I am aware that such is the practice all over the federation. Who then answers for the quality of the job done? Who then ascertains if the job was properly done or not? The likes of Nwaoboshi or Akpabio who are overseers of such projects?  The 132 jobs that are alleged to have had no proof of execution I am very sure must have been one of these self awarded jobs by these big men in power. Hospitals, pipe borne water, roads, drugs, classroom blocks , laboratories all gone to the winds! In civilized climes such news would have warranted the likes of Nwaoboshi and Akpabio to resign and subject themselves to investigations , here the situation is different, egged on by supporters and their media handlers, both men will hover about our landscape like tin gods. Nwaoboshi May even get re-elected into the Senate while an Akpabio will tinker with the idea of becoming President of the Federation. Sadly at the end of it all, the forensic audit of the NDDC is most likely to suffer while the people continue to get so so little of the trillions sunk for their welfare in the commission.