Many footballers were said to have stuffs that catch their fancy off pitch as such devote so much attention to it because of the joy they derive from such passion. While some use their free time for things including travelling, playing computer games, watching television, listening to radio, visiting family and friends, reading, networking, volunteering and of course inking their bodies with  tattoos. But for Bolaji Simeon Sakin, the Nigerian striker with famous Horoya of Guinea tattoo is not tacky but stylish. A tattoo is supposedly a form of body modification where a design is made by inserting ink, dyes and pigments, either indelible or temporary, into the dermis layer of the skin to change the pigment. Incidentally, the 25-year-old Bolaji has truly made tattoo his own fashion statement, affirming  that he doesn’t just go about  drawings on his body unless the occasion demands for it especially when  he has something of note to remember. “My general law for tattooing is that it must be meaningful,” Bolaji who also wears moustache told The Nation. “I do tattoos that are meaningful and I like them very well.” He noted that his first tattoo was done in 2018 and has added others to represent fascinating things he doesn’t want to forget in a hurry.  “I did my first tattoo in 2018 and it was done in Nigeria,” explained the free scoring striker who started his professional football career with Abia Warriors en route to playing in the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) with Wikki Tourists and Rivers United. “Putting a tattoo my body depends on what happened to me or it might be if I don’t want to forget something, then I write it on my body. “I have the face of my son and also in my back, I have my family inked on it and on my left hand I have a write up: ‘I will sacrifice everything for people that I love’.” Bolaji cut his football teeth with Abia Warriors from where he moved to Rivers United. While at Rivers United he played for the team on the continent in the CAF Confederation Cup in 2017 where he even scored two goals in an underwhelming performance which saw the Pride of Rivers crashed out at the group stage. He did just enough for Horoya FC of Guinea to capture him towards the end of 2017 and he still remain with the Guinean Champions until the end of the season when his contract will expire. He has indeed shown his scoring prowess since he joined HAC in 2017 from Rivers United. In his first season with the HAC, Bolaji scored some seven goals  and  notched 10  the following season-  year  that  coincided with the club’s  domestic treble  when they won  the  Guinea  Ligue 1;Guinea National Cup  and Guinea Super Cup . Before the suspension of football across the continent due to COVID-19 pandemic, Bolaji was instrumental to the defeat of Enyimba in the Round of 16 of the CAF Confederation Cup  as the Guinean side eclipsed the People’s Elephants2-1 on aggregate. In the meantime, it seems as though tattoos have become an essential part of many footballers’ life. From global superstars like Lionel Messi to Arturo Vidal, Sergio Ramos to even Watford’s Andre Gray; tattoos have found its ways to their bodies, serving them as a reminder of the glorious moments from every important achievement gone by. Yet Bolaji said he doesn’t have any role model to look up to as per  his interest in tattooing   and that he decided to have a few drawings on his body because of the way he felt at that point in time. “I don’t take after anybody as far as having tattoo is concerned. I just love tattoo from childhood and it wasn’t about having someone as a role model in that line,” he explained. The striker also added that the tattoo he has done are permanent because the drawings are special to him and that he would like to be seeing them almost all the time. But aside tattoo, Bolaji further revealed that he loves power dressing since he is not a fan of native: “My dressing style is a normal; I like dressing very well and looking very corporate. “I like wearing all the clothes apart from agbada (Yoruba flowing men’s apparel) and other natives but I do try to wear natives once in a while but I’m not a fan of it. On the football turf, Sakin has played 26 games on the continent for Horoya in the CAF Champions League and CAF Confederation Cup with four goals and two assists to his credit. He is expected to complete his contract with the Guinean club at the end of the current season and the Nigerian is still keeping sealed lips regarding what will be his next line of action after Horoya FC.