The General Officer Commanding (GOC) 81 Division of the Nigerian Army (NA), Maj.-Gen. Godwin Umelo, on Thursday told operatives of the command to be ready for more work under his watch. Umelo stated this after taking over  flagship of the division from his predecessor, Maj.Gen. Olu Irefin, who has been posted as GOC 6 Division, Port Harcourt. Describing himself as a workaholic, Umelo said he was well aware of the strides recorded by the division under his predecessor, seeking the personnel’s cooperation to surmount all challenges that may arise. The Nation reports that Umelo was formerly at the Army Headquarters, Department of Army Training and Operations (DATOPs), Abuja, before his redeployment to 81 Division. In his brief remarks at the handing/taking over ceremony, Umelo said: “It is a privilege and honour to be appointed as the GOC 81 Division. I am not unmindful of the challenges inherent in command responsibilities like this but I want to believe that with collective efforts, we should be able to surmount whatever challenges that come. “I want to challenge everybody under my command to be ready to work harder. I am a workaholic and I would ensure that the standard does not go below what I have met on ground. I extend the hands of fellowship to everybody as we steer the ship of 81 Division to greater heights.” Addressing the troops at the 65 Battalion’s Parade Ground in Bonny Camp, Umelo assured them their welfare was top priority, adding that all they need to function optimally would be availed them within the limits of available resources. “I am impressed about your behaviour generally and urge you to continue on that brilliant note. However, I will ensure we have regular interraction where we can address pertinent problems,” he said. Earlier, Irefin who decorated his successor with the division’s insignia and accoutrements at the headquarters, 81 Division’s conference room in Victoria Island, said he was satisfied with the successes recorded in his one year stay at the command.