Eminent Law Professor Itse Sagay and Speaker of the House of Representatives on Wednesday carpeted the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) for failing to meet the core mandate  for which it was established 20 years ago. The commission which is writhing in  a series of financial profligacy and corruption, was also lambasted by the Offices of the Accountant-General and Auditor-General of the Federation for delaying the submission of its financial reports. Sagay, who featured on a Channels programme, called on President Muhammadu Buhari to sack the Prof. Kemebradikumo Pondei -led Interim Management Committee of the intervention agency for large scale fraud, financial recklessness and incompetence. Sagay said: “I will suggest that everybody there should be cleared out so that a permanent board and management can be established in the place that will then be monitored. My view is that everybody should be removed right now.” Sagay, who chairs the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption,  wondered  why  a substantive board to manage the NDDC  and supervise the forensic audit ordered by President Muhammadu Buhari had not been raised. “I do not see why forensic auditing cannot take place when you have a regular board. I don’t see the point in having this temporary arrangement (IMC) which is an anomaly and which has proved to be a disaster,” Sagay said At the House of Representatives where an investigative hearing into an alleged N40 billion irregular expenditure in the NDDC commenced on Wednesday, Speaker Gbajabiamila lamented that it was regrettable that the intervention agency had failed to deliver on its mandates.. The IMC management was however not at the hearing as they were summoned to appear before the Federal Executive Council (FEC). Gbajabiamila noted that  in spite of  the huge appropriated by the Federal Government for the agency, “the Niger Delta region continues to score exceptionally low on many of the major human development indices. According to the speaker, “these statistics reflect the reality of disease and deprivation, lack of opportunity and broken dreams that is the plight of many of our fellow citizens in the region.” He stated that “it  is  particularly disturbing and   embarrassing that every other news report about the NDDC seems to centre around escalating allegations of corruption and malfeasance.” Also, the Auditor-General of the Federation, Anthony Ayini and Representative of the Accountant-General of the Federation, Mohammed Sabo,who were at the hearing session, confirmed that they  had challenges auditing the books of NDDC. They therefore urged the House to amend the Constitution to reflect punitive measures for  officials or agencies that fail to  submit their financial reports to their offices as at when due. Ayini said: “It has been difficult getting NDDC to respond to us which equally affected us in concluding our report. “However, there has to put in place punitive measures so as to discourage agencies that would want to go against the constitution”. Sabo also said:  “We had   serious difficulties getting responses from the  NDDC and that’s why the audit report was delayed.”. Chairman, House Committee on Niger Delta Affairs, Olubumi Tunji-Ojo, restated that  documents   from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Office of the Accountant-General showed that the NDDC spent N81.5 billion between January and May. Tunji-Ojo gave the breakdown  as  N1.3 billion on community relations;  N122.9 million on condolences; N122.9 million on consultancy; N31.4 billion on COVlD-19;  N486 million on Duty Tour Allowances (DTA); N790.9 million as imprest  and N1.956 billion on Lassa fever. The  NDDC also  spent N900 million on legal services;  N220 million on maintenance;  N85.6 million on oversea travels; N1.121 billion on  public communication; N744 million   on security;  N20.9 billion on staff- related payments  and N248 million   on stakeholder’s engagement. He  said the IMC management was expected to appear before his committee today.. The House however frowned at the processes employed by the Bureau of Public Procurement (BPP) in issuing certificates of no objection for anticipatory purchases  by the  NDDC According to the lawmakers, some of the blame for the spending by the NDDC could be laid at the doorstep of the BPP. Meanwhile, a coalition of youths and women groups in the Niger Delta has called  on the National Assembly   to allow the NDDC IMC  to focus on developing  their  region. The groups, led by the President of the Association of Non-Violent Peace Ambassadors (NVPA), Mr. Otolo Emmanuel, made  the call during their solidarity rally   at the NDDC headquarters in Port Harcourt. They accused persons allegedly running away from the ongoing forensic probe of the agency of trying to destabilise its operations. Emmanuel said: “We have come in solidarity with the IMC   headed by Pondei. ”We are here to demonstrate our support for Prof. Pondei on account of the good work he is doing in the Niger Delta. We insist that he should be allowed to carry out the forensic audit and anyone that is found wanting should face the full wrath of the law. “We call on the National Assembly to stop impeding development of the Niger Delta region, because all the allegations that are going on do not benefit us. All we want is development which is being frustrated.”