 The Federal government has approved the of granting Global Resource Management Limited a-25 year lease covering the entire area of the LADOL Free Zone. Global Resource Management Limited, the owner of LADOL, got Presidential approval for the 25 years lease in 2018 but was just ratified. Chairman of LADOL, Chief Ladi Jadesimi, disclosed this on Thursday in a statement issued by the company. He said the lease was valid and subsisting and urged all stakeholders to comply with the Federal Government’s final directive, which was geared toward resolving the dispute and restoring investor confidence to the industry. He said it would as well bring Nigerian Ports Authority’s (NPA) actions in conformity with extant laws and Federal Government Policy on Local Content. Jadesimi said: “This decision shows due recognition and understanding for the spirit in which LADOL Group’s shareholders, both private and public, have been investing in developing the Zone out of a disused swampy area since 2004.  This investment continues today, in line with the policies of the Federal Government and in support of the economy of Nigeria. “We thank you unequivocally – our dear employees, stakeholders, and customers for your loyalty, patience and support, and for keeping faith with us throughout this period.” According to him, LADOL remains committed to helping to make Nigeria the industrial hub for West Africa.  “Our shareholders remain undeterred in their long-term commitment to making investments that will turn the Zone into a Sustainable Industrial Special Economic Zone which will be a blueprint for sustainable industrialisation of Africa. “LADOL remains a law abiding corporate citizen and is looking forward to continuing our strategic partnerships with the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board, the Nigerian Ports Authority, the Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority, all the agencies in the Zone and our stakeholders.” He expressed his appreciation to all stakeholders for their successful mediation, noting that the timely intervention had saved jobs, protected huge private and public investments and highlighted a deep commitment to the local content policy.