In 1974, when Nigeria was “on top of the world” during its first oil boom, the nominal minimum wage was 60 naira (N) ($228) per month. Adjusted for inflation, this amount is equivalent to about N90,000 today. [1] In short, as seen in Table 1 (the full version of which can be found here), the real wage has been falling and is now about 80 percent less of that in 1974. The purchasing power is now three times weaker than that of 1981, meaning Nigerian minimum-wage workers are worse off now than in 1981. The public-sector employees—through the umbrella organization for trade unions in Nigeria, Nigerian Labour Congress—are now asking for a pay raise and consideration by the government is being given for an increase from the current $49.52 per month (or 31 cents per hour) to $82.53 (or 52 cents per hour, just enough to pay for a haircut or buy a liter of gasoline in Nigeria). If the government wishes to raise the welfare level of the workers back to what it was in 1981, the minimum wage should be raised to N54,000 ($149) per month. While that raise—which will substantially be financed from federal oil proceeds—is a good idea given its significant decline over the decades—the issue of “ghost workers”—“fraudsters creating fake identities in order to file benefits claims”—means that much of that money could likely be lost/stolen. For instance, the system that purges the payroll of ghost workers saved the government about 285 billion naira (more 278 million dollars) in 2017 and 2018 alone. This gives us an idea of how much was scooped away prior to the installing and use of the World Bank-supported Integrated Payment. system. So, how should the government respond? The Nigerian federal system and what it means for public-sector workers Before addressing this question, please permit me to provide some context: a brief account of Nigeria’s federal political and fiscal structure and how this relates to the bureaucrats, their employers, and the wage payments. Nigeria runs a federal system of government, composed of three tiers: the federal, state, and local governments. The federal government is headed by an elected president, the states by elected governors (there are 36 states), and the local governments by heads of councils. There are 774 local governments in the country (equivalent to the United States districts or counties), and they all fall under the jurisdictions of the 36 states. For instance, the largest state is in the country is made up of 44 local government area councils, while the smallest state is made up of only eight. Each of these three tiers of the government are responsible for employing and paying their staff—the bureaucrats. At the same time, a substantial part—if not the entire—wage bill of all three tiers is funded by the federal government. Each month, the central government allocates 70 percent of Nigeria’s oil proceeds to the 36 states and the 774 local government councils, out of which the states and local councils are to pay their locally salaried government workers. As a side note, it should be noted that higher poverty rates are found in states with high dependence on federal allocation & vice versa: Lagos (bottom left of the chart) has the lowest poverty rate (4.5%) & the lowest share of federal allocation in total revenue, 8.5%. Others: Ogun, Rivers, Delta, Kwara,… The opposite (top right): Sokoto, Katsina, Kebbi, Bauchi, Niger, Adamawa, Yobe, etc these are states that derive 60 to 70%+ of their total revenues from federal allocations and because of this, their finances become more vulnerable to changes in the price of oil. They should be getting less revenue in the event that the price of oil crash because over 70% of their major revenue source is oil. We should expect them to be in bad at this time as COVID-19 & the Russia-Saudi ill-timed price war have driven down the price of oil. However, because some of the state governors are in the frequent habit of withholding and diverting part of the allocations of which the wage bills of their states, many of the states wind up not paying their staff duly—in other words, the payments are often sporadic and incomplete. This usually happens. Policy recommendations To allow for an effective pay raise for government workers while also circumventing, and perhaps eliminating ghost workers, I recommend the following: First, the government should adopt a central payment system—based at the federal capital and run by the national government—to pay the state and locally salaried staff directly. This strategy would purge the system of “ghost workers.” In fact, in 2015, a similar scheme introduced by the former finance of minister of Nigeria, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, weeded out over 65,000 ghost workers, saving the government over $1.1 billion in fraudulent payroll costs. The central government should deduct the wage bill of each state from the state’s monthly federal subvention and then use it in paying, directly, government employees working at the state and local levels of government. I believe this will stop states from owing workers and will also help in purging the payment system – but not 100% – of ghost workers. The government should utilize new technology to better track payments to employees. According to CGD – Center for Global Development Senior Fellow Alan Gelb biometric identification technology can aid in this goal. In this strategy, using biometrics, the central government can store, in a federally centralized database, the identity (e.g., fingerprints and other essential details) of government employees at all levels—federal, state and local. Then, procure an ATM-like device (maybe through a MoU with one of the technologically advanced countries) with a built-in fingerprint feature that links (or synchronizes) with the central database. At the end of every month, when salaries are due, the staff use their fingerprints to claim their salaries and other benefits, with the option of transferring part of or the entirety into their existing bank accounts. Notably, this idea is a bit controversial. Many states will reject this idea on the ground that they are supposed to be autonomous and should therefore be allowed absolute control over their finances. Then again, proponents argue that, since states are not utterly financially independent of the central government, this strategy is appropriate. Indeed, data from Nigeria’s National Bureau of Statistics show that only Lagos state, the country’s commercial nerve center, derives less than 10 percent of its total revenues from the federation account. Federal revenue allocations to some northern and non-oil producing states account for over 70 percent of their total revenues. In short, the public-sector minimum wage is no longer high enough to offer workers a decent living, but without strategies to effectively and thoroughly purge ghost workers, that pay raise Finally, corruption at the state level can be minimized through some constitutional amendments: the tenure of state governors should be reduced to a single term of five years. And that former governors should not be eligible to run for national assembly (parliamentary or congressional) seats, e.g. the senate. Why? State governors have so many fiscal powers. They are in charge of internally generated revenues and state federal allocations. What then is the connection between these and the term limit being proposed? The cost of running a campaign in Nigeria is very high and if a sitting governor is allowed to run for office more than once, he may use his executive privilege to pilfer the resources of his state and use it to finance the future campaigns so as to tighten his grip on power. It seems apparent that if the state governors want to “cement” the path to looting their states and at the same time be shielded from the wrath of the law, they start by cozying up and showing unflinching loyalty to the sitting president of the country given that the leading anti-graft agency that investigates and prosecutes financial crimes in the country, the EFCC, is under the whims of the presidency. Next, they approve succulent pay packages for their state houses of assembly members and by so doing they tend to mute the avenues that could to hold them to account and by default, are granted the carte blanche to do as they wish with the state finances – pulling the switches and moving levers of both political and economic powers. Please note, when politicians across party lines seem to ‘get along’, it’s the governed, the people that usually suffer the spill-over effect. And, when the politicians don’t get along, the people get to know the truth about what goes on in the government and therefore the people may suffer less than they would have had the politicians get along. This is a reminder of how power tussle promotes and yet undermines economic progress in a democratic setting. Cutting term limits will certainly not root out or bring an end to corruption but it may blunt the incentive of serving politicians to ambitiously loot the treasuries of their states. This proposal is not out of the realm of possibility. It is achievable if powered by the political will. But the “will” seems to be a scarce political capital in a country that is in desperate need of radical reforms! Dapel, wrote in via @dapelzg and dapelz@live.com