The 2020-2021 edition of the InterswitchSPAK National Science competition has been postponed till further notice. A statement by the Group Chief   Marketing   and Communication   Officer   at   Interswitch,   Cherry   Eromosele, noted that the postponement was to avoid the spread of the COVID-19 virus during the competition which features a national qualifying examination; masterclass; quiz and innovations competition. “We have no doubt that the appropriate course to take as a socially responsible organisation, is to defer this year’s edition of InterswitchSPAK until the dangers to public health posed by the pandemic are sufficiently mitigated. To  this effect, we have formally ceased  ongoing  registration of  candidates  by  schools  across Nigeria  and Kenya   for   the current  year,   following   engagement   with   relevant   concerned   educational   authorities   and stakeholders in both countries”, she said. Ms. Eromosele said the organisers found a virtual version would be impracticable presently and chose to postpone till when physical contact of the participants is possible. “Based on due considerations for the health, safety and general well-being of thousands of young students and the other categories of stakeholders involved in the national qualifying   examinations, Masterclasses and national science competitions across Nigeria and Kenya annually, Interswitch Group has taken the difficult, howbeit, necessary and pragmatic decision to move the activities planned for the 2020 /2021 edition of InterswitchSPAK National Science competition.” According to the statement, the global concern regarding the coronavirus outbreak and its outlook   which   remains   unclear,   including   travel   and   social   gathering concerns among other considerations make it extremely challenging to proceed with the implementation of the 2020 edition as earlier planned. “Having   explored   the   options   open   to   them   including   logistics   of   staging   a   fully   virtual implementation of the competition, the organisers have come to the resolution that the most optimal course of action would be to defer the season. ” Eromosele said   that   the   organisation   has   commenced constructive   engagement with various   stakeholders and   partners   who   work mannually on this initiative and will continue to work with them in unison as they plan towards the subsequent season of the project. 