The United Arab Emirate (UAE) is to execute a $40,000 water project in four states of the Federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), The Nation has learnt. The benefitting States are Cross River, Abia, Akwa Ibom, Osun UAE Deputy Ambassador to Nigeria, Khalifa Al- Mehrezi disclosed this at the commissioning of one of the projects in the FCT. The water project is an initiative of the Sharjah Charity, a UAE based charity organization and implemented in collaboration with AWACIO Already, the Embassy has completed one of the two water projects earmarked for FCT. Mehrezi said the embassy sees the project as part of its commitment to impact on lives of the people in such areas and communities that are in dire need of clean and potable water. He said the Embassy always supports education and health and the water project falls within its programme. The target of the Embassy, he said, is to address the challenges bothering people in the rural communities. He added the Embassy is delighted in doing this and will never stop. “The project is over $40,000 we are doing in different areas and different states and we really hope that having clean and potable water would be one less thing that people will have to worry about,” he said. The envoy stressed: “Community development and outreach is something that is very important to the embassy and this particular project-lack of access to clean and portable water is a problem in a lot of areas and Abuja. “So we want to do something that will benefit the community and people that are in need of clean water. We are doing another location along airport road in Abuja and we are also doing borehole projects in other five states across Nigeria. Apart from the borehole project, the Embassy has been involved in a number of projects. In 2019, it executed projects that benefitted over 22,000 people, this include vocational training for IDOs and Widows, eye care project in Katsina, and other outreach programmes to hospitals, Orphanages and schools.