The Nigeria Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA) Ekiti chapter has said mosques would remain shut despite government’s directive for resumption of religious activities. Governor Kayode Fayemi had announced churches and mosques in Ekiti can reopen from July 17 after the nationwide lockdown barring religious activities was declared on March 29. But President, NSCIA, Ekiti State, Alhaji Yaqubu Sanni, in a statement on Thursday said the suspension was because all the safety protocols can not be met within the time frame stipulated by the government. “Muslims in the Government Committee on the re-opening of worship centres and health officer educated members on how to guard themselves from Covid-19 and conditions to be met before the re-opening of mosques in the State. “After reviewing the guidelines, it was agreed that the conditions for re-opening of mosques as discussed could not be met within the stipulated time frame, that is, between now and July 17, 2020. ” Hence, it was resolved that the Muslims in Ekiti State would hold on for a while in preparations to meet the conditions laid down,” Sanni said. The NSCIA applauded Government for steps to safeguard worshippers in Ekiti against the pandemic. Also, the State Government has directed all religious centres ready to resume operations to acquire certificates of fitness before reopening. The government said religious centres with coronavirus prevention facilities will only be allowed to resume activities while certificates of compliance must be received from the Ministry to authenticate readiness to reopen . The Commissioner for Environment, Hon. Gbenga Agbeyo, who said these in Ado Ekiti, insisted that no religious centres would be allowed to resume without complying with the stipulated guidelines to curb the spread of coronavirus . He said all the churches and mosques must comply with the COVID-19 safety protocols, insisting they must fumigate their premises and provide running water to ensure regular hand washing.