This report provides comprehensive guidelines to aid women in achieving PID prevention, management, and treatment objectives. The main focus of this document is to discover factors that lead to PID in women, and how it could be treated effectively. Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID), or pelvic inflammation, is a term used to refer to the inflammation of female pelvic cavity reproductive organs, connective tissue around the uterus, and pelvic peritoneum. The chronic pelvic inflammation often the results from the treatment delay of the acute pelvic inflammation and it is a long-term, stubborn disease which makes it very troublesome. Bacterium retrogrades through the uterus and Fallopian tubes to the pelvic cavity and causes the inflammation. However, in real life, not all but a small number of women are likely to get PID. This is because the female reproductive system, with its natural defense function, under normal circumstances, can resist the invasion of bacterium. Only when body’s resistance drops, or for some reasons the natural defense function is damaged, there is a chance of the occurrence of PID.  Women who just went through parturition are very frail. The opening cervix with lochia flowing, failed to close timely. Inside the uterine cavity there is the surface where the placenta fell off from, the birth canal injury caused by delivery, or the residues of the placenta or the fetal membrane. Pathogens invade the uterine through premature sexual life after parturition. Are you experiencing:- These are common Symptoms of Pelvic Inflammatory Disease felt in the female reproductive organs. … It can affect the uterus, or womb, the fallopian tubes, the ovaries, or a combination… Click here to schedule a 10 minutes FREE WhatsApp consultation with me, for the best possible treatment solution. All these can easily cause inflammation. In the process of spontaneous abortion or medical abortion, the vaginal breeds for too long. There might be tissue residues inside the uterine cavity. Or the aseptic operation is not strict. All these may also lead to infection. Surgeries such as placing or removing of the coil, curettage, salpingography, hysteroscopy examination, submucosal uterine fibroid enuclation, etc. may lead to inflammation because of sexual life before the surgery, lower-level disinfection before the surgery and improper selection of the preoperative indications. Some patients may get PID caused by bacterial uplink infection, which is the result of carelessness personal hygiene or disobedience of doctor`s advice after the surgery. Some women do not pay attention to the menstrual health. Behaviors like use of unclean sanitary napkin and pad, bath in the tub, sexual life during the menstrual period all add to the possibility of PID. The most common types including appendicitis and peritonitis, because the inflammatory organ is adjacent to the internal genital organs of woman, the inflammation may spread directly and cause PID. Chronic cervicitis may also lead to PID through the lymphatic circulation. There are other reasons such as the acute episodes of chronic PID as well.  Usually Antibiotics are used in the treatment of acute PID. Attention should be paid to the length of the treatment course. And traditional herbal medicine could be combined in the treatment to achieve better result. Curbinfect is a good choice for that. It has shown great effect in curing PID in the cases of many patients… Click here to learn more about Curbinfect and pid natural treatment. If you want to get more classical and helpful articles on how to permanently cure Acute Pelvic Inflammatory Disease, Subacute Pelvic Inflammatory Disease, Chronic Pelvic Inflammatory Disease, Sexually Transmitted Pelvic Inflammatory Disease or related symptoms like this one for FREE, subscribe to My Special Newsletters for tips on how you can completely cure any infectious diseases related symptoms within the shortest time possible. Join other Nigerian families on our list whose lives have been greatly impacted and changed positively by subscribing to this wonderful health and wellness newsletter. Inside, you will receive: Please click the “Subscribe Now” button below to enter your Name, Email & Phone Number below to Join The List Now!  Are you experiencing:- These are common Symptoms of Pelvic Inflammatory Disease felt in the female reproductive organs. … It can affect the uterus, or womb, the fallopian tubes, the ovaries, or a combination… Click here to schedule a 10 minutes FREE WhatsApp consultation with me, for the best possible treatment solution.  Yours Sincerely, Dr. Seyi Grace Contact Our Customer Support Lines: