The Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has appointed a 49-member high-level National Campaign Council for the September 19 Edo State Governorship Election. The council, chaired by Kano State Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, has four governors, the Deputy Senate President and two former national chairmen of the party, among others, as members. The party’s Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Yekini Nabena, in a statement in Abuja yesterday, said the appointment of the council followed the approval of the National Chairman of the party’s Caretaker Committee, Mai Mala Buni. According to Nabena, the Governor of Imo State, Sen. Hope Uzodinma, who supervised the party’s governorship primary election in June 22, will serve as Deputy Chairman and Abbas Braimoh as Secretary of the 49-member APC National Campaign Council. The campaign council, which will be inaugurated on July 6 at the party’s national secretariat, has as members Deputy Senate President Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, Gombe State Governor  Inuwa Yahaya, Kogi State Governor  Yahaya Bello and Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. On the membership of the council are two former APC national chairmen Chief John Odigie-Oyegun and Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. Others are seven former governors. They include Sen. Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko, Sen. Godswill Akpabio, Sen. Orji Uzor Kalu, Sen. Owelle Rochas Okorocha, Chief Timipre Sylva, Chief Emmanuel Eweta Uduaghan and Prof. Oserheimen A. Osunbor. Also on the list of the council to be inaugurated on Monday are three former governorship aspirants who stepped down for the party’s standard-bearer, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu. They are Dr. Pius Odubu, Chris Ogiemwonyi and Osaro Obaze. Others are Sen. Degi Eremiemyo Biobaraku, Sen. John Owan Enoh, E. J. Agbonayiman, former Secretary to Government of the Federation (SGF),  Babachir Lawal, Prince  B. B. Apugo, Gen. Charles Airhiavbere, Peter Akpatason, Patrick Alsowleren,  Johnson Oghuma, Prof. Julius Ihonvbere, Pally Iriase, Dennis Idahosa, Mrs. Rachel Akpabio, Mr. Bolaji Afeez, Gabriel Iduseri and Chief Cairo Ojougboh. Also in the council are Patrick Obahiagbon, Chief Ayiri Emami, Abubakar Adagu Suberu,  Usman Nahuche,  Chidi Orji,  Dr. Almajiri Giadam, Sen. Sa’idu Umar Kumo, Chief Pius Akinyelure, Chief Solomon Edebiri, Prof. Ebegue Amadasun, Saturday Uwulekue, Chief Samuel Ogbuku, Miss. Rinsola Abiola and Theresa Tekenel.