 The opportunity offered by the PLATFORM, the annual forum organized by the Poju Oyemade’s Covenant Nation last weekend, was, in my opinion, not put to good use by both the participants and the organizers. There was not a word on a possible cure of the disease, however farfetched. It was all of prognostications and pontifications on the so called “post” COVID-19 – the economy, life styles, private enterprise etc. Methinks, however, that such a forum offered ample opportunity to discuss the feasibility of a home-made cure or at least materials that will be used to accelerate the testing process in order to determine the actual status of the country on COVID-19. At last count, the total number of cases, nationwide, stood at 2,388, a figure which many believe is deceptive given that tests are not being carried out as rapidly and as extensively as the current situation requires. But not a word was said of how to intensify testing and even explore the possibility of a home cure. Instead, it was all about optimism and the “resilience” of Nigerians to withstand hardship. This was how the vice president, Yemi Osinbajo, put it: “We will get through this much stronger economically and much stronger as a people because of our resilience …. I am very confident that Nigerians, with our resilience, our strength and our innovations, we will go through this in great shape”. Resilience! Osinbajo further said: “We have to prioritize the use of local resources in all public works. In road construction for instance, it is cheaper to build concrete roads using limestone than spending resources on the importation of bitumen. We have limestone in abundance hence we should be looking in that direction. The road from Apapa port to the Lagos-Ibadan expressway is being built with cement and of high quality. In the housing sector, we have a huge deficit where we need to focus on using local resources to build houses and in the process, we will be creating opportunities for young engineers, architects and builders. We think that by ramping up agriculture, especially small holder agriculture and improving the value chain, especially in storage and processing facilities, more jobs will be created for many young people. We have found ourselves in a situation where we realize that the way to go is to support the creation of jobs in agriculture and reduce food imports and ultimately address the issue of unemployment and food shortages …” The vice president went on and on. One of Osinbajo’s co-discussants, Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, spoke with the same template: “Nigeria must emerge from this crisis with a plan to create jobs, reduce poverty and put food on the table of our citizens. We must attract investment … and prioritize the provision of critical investments in education, healthcare, security…”  The same old stories on a day over 200 cases of COVID-19 were recorded and death toll in Kano from a “strange” disease were rising daily. Meanwhile, at least two African countries – Senegal and Madagascar – are already in the race for solutions to the pandemic. Senegal, a country far less endowed than Nigeria, is said to have developed a test kit that costs one US Dollar (About N360.00); and, wait a minute, the results from this (Senegalese) test kit could be out in 10 minutes! In Uganda a COVID-19 test is said to cost $1.07 while in Egypt it is said to be $5. In Nigeria, there is no official cost of COVID-19 test even though it is free. However, reports in the social media sometime in March, had it that a test in Nigeria costs about N1.2 million ($3,200). The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) dismissed the “fake news”, insisting that it is free but as one expert put it, “no test is free, someone is bearing the cost”. There is no gainsaying the fact that the reason testing is not as rapid and extensive as it ought to be in Nigeria is simply because even though it is “free”, it is expensive to the government which is bearing the cost. It is like the aphorism of the child who bought an item from his mother with a counterfeit (fake) currency; meaning that the counterfeit money is still circulating within the family. Even though testing is said to be free, the ultimate bearer of the cost are Nigerians. So, the cheaper it is, the better for us. Since Nigeria is under tested because testing is expensive, it connotes a deadlier situation because it means that many people are walking about with the virus. As seen, the Senegalese test comes in 10 minutes. In comparison, results in Nigeria take days. Last week, at least three prominent Nigerians that reportedly died from complications of COVID-19 gave up the ghost while the results of the tests conducted on their samples were still being awaited. This means that it was most unlikely that treatment had commenced since the results were not yet to be known. In other words, the deaths might have been avoided had the results of the case been known on time and treatment commenced. A report in the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) monitored by a national daily quoted the son of one of the deceased, Rabiu Musa, the late head of communications, United Nations Children Emergency (UNICEF), who died in Kano last week, offers a good illustration: “Although we noticed symptoms we suspected to be of corona virus, the result of the test conducted is not yet out”. In the case of Madagascar, what the country brought out is a mere herbal tea, its COVID-Organics developed by the Malagasy Institute of Applied Research and for which it has reportedly gotten a grant of $2.5 million from the government of the United States of America to help its effort at fighting COVID-19 in that country. It is heartwarming, however, that there are promising developments from some enterprising individuals in Nigeria, the most notable perhaps being that of Professor Maurice Iwu, a world renown expert in pharmacognosy. Iwu announced last March that his research organization, Bioresource Institute of Nigeria, has isolated a compound that is capable of providing a cure for corona virus. While presenting the findings of the institute to the Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, on March 2, he had said: “….while the Ministry of Health, the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control and other healthcare professionals are actively engaged in providing treatment and support for the management of the corona virus infection, it is important to indicate that the Nigerian scientific community is making contributions towards finding a sustainable treatment for the prevention and/or treatment of Wuhan corona virus (also known as COVID-19) as part of drug discovery programme for neglected tropical disease, emergent infections and orphan disease”. Earlier, in February, Iwu’s institute had executed a Non-Clinical Evaluation Agreement (NCEA) with the US government. The agreement provides that Bioresource and the US would conduct further study on drugs already discovered and patented by the institute for the treatment of the novel corona virus. Besides Iwu, another lecturer and medical researcher at the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Professor Ayodele Adeleye, has also come up to say that he can treat corona virus patients with some herbal formulae. Other Nigerians who have made similar claims are Olajuwan Okubena, and Benard Amodu, a Fellow of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria. The question now is: What support are these people or local institutions getting from government or even wealthy Nigerians? In the last five weeks, we have seen individuals and cooporate bodies donate huge sums of money to both the federal and state government in the support of the fight against COVID-19. How much of such donations are going into finding cheaper tests at least? In almost all cases, the donations are so publicized that it becomes apparent that the underlining motivation could be political. Agreed, COVID-19 has no known cure for now, but it will not be surprising if the developed nations come up with one overnight. And it may be at a price that African nations, cannot afford. 