 SIR: Demolition Man is a 1993 American science fiction film about a psychopathic criminal who demolished a building with hostages inside and a destructive super cop who had a penchant for leaving trails of collateral damage. Ironically, in the plot of the movie, both the hero and the villain engaged in destructive behaviours that were egocentric and antisocial. Although Warner Bros. released the movie as a social satire 27 years ago, its central theme resonates with the recent occurrence in Rivers State where Governor Nyesom Wike supervised the demolition of two hotels for flouting an executive order. Like the law enforcer in Demolition Man, Governor Wike also seems to have a penchant for leaving trails of collateral damage through unguarded utterances, unconstitutional actions and human rights violation. In addition to the governor’s impulse to make unguarded utterances, his recent spontaneous and unconstitutional actions have also raised concerns. The governor issued an executive order, which barred vehicles and flights from entering Rivers State as a preventive measure against the spread of the coronavirus. When he received information that Caverton Helicopters Ltd, a logistics company that provides support services for oil and gas companies in Nigeria, flew a helicopter into the state, he led police officers and the Nigerian Air Force officers to arrest the two pilots and 10 passengers for violating the executive order. A few days after, the governor also arrested 22 employees of Exxon Mobil who entered Rivers State from Akwa Ibom.  Even though the Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika said that the federal government gave the pilots permission to fly into Rivers State as a matter of national interest, Wike insisted that he would prosecute the arrested employees of Caverton and Exxon Mobil. Meanwhile, aviation regulation and laws are the exclusive preserve of the federal government and state governments have no rights to regulate flights. Now, the governor claims to rely on an executive order to demolish two hotels that were allegedly in operation against the directive of the state’s executive order. Like the Demolition Man, Nyesom Wike attempted to deter the perceived destructive activities of both hotels with a corresponding act of destruction. The governor has gloated over how the law backs his actions but according to Femi Falana, under the Nigerian law, an emergency under the Quarantine Act does not permit the demolition of property. The right to property, fair hearing and liberty are constitutional rights. No governor has the power to dismiss these rights under the pretext of enforcing the COVID-19 regulations. One would expect Governor Wike who is a senior lawyer and member of the Body of Benchers to know better than making unguarded utterances and taking actions that violate the constitution. 