 The Supreme Court’s judgement, which quashed the conviction of the former governor of Abia State, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, has drawn the ire of eminent lawyers, and ordinary Nigerians. While some attacked the judgment as lacking in merit, others argued that the court has promoted technicality over merit. Conversely, other no less eminent lawyers, have argued that the judgment is sound in law, drawing their inspiration from the provisions of the 1999 constitution (as amended). Of note, the prosecuting agency, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), which got a conviction at the trial court, called the judgment of the apex court, an ambush. For this writer, it is a supreme irony that the judgments of the Supreme Court of the land, is increasingly becoming so controversial that senior lawyers, now throw decorum to the dogs, in attacking it. Not long ago, the subjects of such scurrilous attacks, were the judgments in the election petition appeals from the Imo and Bayelsa gubernatorial elections. With the darts now thrown freely at the apex court over its judgments, are we approaching what the inimitable columnist of this paper, Tatalo Alamu, calls the end game; this time, for our judiciary? Perhaps, there could still be a saving grace, if our nation would dispassionately examine the utility of our legal system as constituted and make changes were appropriate. After all, the basic expectation from a legal system, in a criminal matter, is to offer justice to the accused, the accuser and the state. Bearing that in mind, after examining the effectiveness of our present legal system, this writer has argued severally that our adversarial legal system is untenable for a third world country like ours. That is against a more participatory inquisitorial legal system, where the judge is allowed to examine the issues at stake by himself; instead of sitting aloof, and allowing the adversaries to win or lose the case, depending on the arguments they marshal before the judge or the technical issues raised. Of course, while the judge should legally be secured enough to act independently of all the parties in a criminal justice system, he should be constituted in such a manner to be able to probe the issues raised, in other to gift the three parties, what substantially approximates to justice for all of them. I use the word approximation, advisedly, knowing that it may be impossible to gain the satisfaction of all parties, in all cases.  In the Orji Uzor Kalu’s case, if the facts in the public domain are true, is it not ironical that while the counsel to the accused person successfully moved the President of the Court of Appeal to grant a fiat to the elevated Honourable Justice Mohammed Idris to return to the Federal High Court to conclude the part-heard case at the High Court, another counsel to the accused again successfully moved the Supreme Court, to come to the conclusion that it is unconstitutional for a judge who has been elevated to a higher court, to return to his former court, to conclude a criminal matter partly-heard, before he was elevated? A classic case of eating your cake, and still having it, perhaps? That is so, even though the EFCC has vowed to swiftly subject the former governor and now a senator to another trial, as ordered by the apex court. But what are the issues raised in the judgment of the apex court that drowned the judgement of the Hon. Justice Idris of the federal high court? The thrust of the argument of the Supreme Court is that the judgment against Senator Orji Uzor Kalu was a nullity, because the judge who heard the case of the prosecution, and the one who heard the case of the defence and gave the judgment, even though the same biological person, is not the same juridical person, as the first was a judge of the high court, and the latter a justice of the appeal court. For this column, while the judgment is defensible in law, it is irrational, in social justice. Section 396(7) of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA), which the President of the Court of Appeal, relied upon to grant a fiat to Justice Idris, to return to the federal high court, to conclude the hearing of the case and deliver judgment, after he was elevated and sworn in as a justice of the appeal court, is incongruous with the clear intendment of the 1999 constitution (as amended). This is without prejudice to the inherent law-making powers of the courts, which the Supreme Court has to interpret a law so as not to defeat the clear purpose of the lawmaker. A combined reading of sections 1, 6(5), 230-284, show that the clear intention of the constitution is to have hierarchies of court, which cannot be subjugated by an inferior law. So, when a person is appointed to any of the courts, he becomes a judicial officer of that court, with the authority to exercise the powers conferred by the constitution, and other extant laws. Such a person appointed to one of the hierarchies of the court, cannot be embedded with the authority to exercise the powers of another hierarchy of the courts, by virtue of an act of the National Assembly. Those against the judgment of the Supreme Court, rely on the clear intendments of section 396(7) of the ACJA, which provides: “Notwithstanding the provision of any other law to the contrary, a judge of the High Court who has been elevated to the Court of Appeal shall have dispensation to continue to sit as a High Court Judge, only for the purposes of concluding any part-heard criminal matter, pending before him at the time of his elevation and shall be concluded within reasonable time, provided that this section shall not prevent him from assuming duty as a Justice of the Court of Appeal.” No doubt, the above provision is to stymie the frustrations associated with the criminal trials, especially of politically exposed persons, which the elevation of trial judges accentuate. It must therefore been borne in mind that the essence of the ACJA is to salvage the tragedy that has befallen our criminal justice system, with matters lasting in the courts for decades. The Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, is a case in point, considering that the matter has been on and off, since the end of Kalu’s gubernatorial rule in 2007. Perhaps, if the Supreme Court was mindful to act radically, it would have upheld the provision of section 396(7), bearing in mind its social justice destination. But it choose to act conservatively, which has exposed it to accusation of supreme incompetence. 