The Assistant News Manager of Nigeria Television Authority (NTA) Aba, Mrs. Chinyere Okoye has been kidnapped by gunmen in Aba. A radio presenter was kidnapped in the state less than three weeks ago. Sources said Okoye was abducted in her own car at her house gate after closing from work on Wednesday. The assailants have demanded an undisclosed sum as ransom, it was learnt. Military sources confirmed the incident. It was learnt that her people on opening the gate, couldn’t see her; a situation that was said to have thrown them into panic as none of them could account for her whereabouts. The woman’s husband was said to have on the same Wednesday night put a call across to his wife’s line, but the call was answered by one of the kidnappers who told him they would call him back later. The abductors however reportedly called the victim’s husband on Thursday morning and demanded an undisclosed amount as ransom. General Manager NTA Aba, Nwadi Elobuike who confirmed the incident to journalists expressed shock over the development. She narrated how she left the station after the 7 pm news, about the same time with Chinyere only to be alerted of the development as she was about to enter her house. The victim is said to be a staff of the Enugu NTA Zonal Office before she was recently transferred to Aba. Police authorities in the state could not be reached for comment on the the incident, but a senior army officer with the 14 Brigade of the Nigerian Army, Ohafia, who wouldn’t want his name in print confirmed the woman’s abduction and said efforts are on top gear for her rescue. Meanwhile, journalists practicing in the state has called on heads of various security agencies in the state to ensure that the state was safe for all and sundry. According to some of the journalists who spoke anonymously, the recent target and abduction of journalists in the state by gunmen is becoming worrisome and not in the interest of the state. They appealed to the gunmen to ensure that they release their colleague unconditionally, stressing that as a low-income earner and one who depends on her meager salary for personal and family sustenance, Mrs. Okoye in this lockdown may not even have enough for have family.