A recent disclosure by the Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Mr. Olamilekan Adegbite, that “powerful individuals” are behind illegal mining activities in the country is a disappointing manifestation of the Federal Government’s tendency to bemoan challenges instead of taking decisive action to solve them. Speaking at a press briefing in Abuja on the activities of illegal miners in Osun and Zamfara states, Adegbite claimed that many of them are non-citizens who have exploited the current policy of encouraging artisanal mining to perpetrate their nefarious practices. The minister stated that illegal mining would now be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law, unlike previously when cases rarely reached their logical conclusion. The depredations of illegal mining are only too well known in Nigeria. According to the Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI), Nigeria lost $9 billion between 2014 to 2015 to the illegal mining of gold and other minerals. Host communities have suffered the negative consequences of poor mining practices by illegal miners, such as the kidnapping, violence and lead-poisoning experienced in Zamfara. It is, however, vital that the nation move beyond the simple verities of condemnation. The COVID-19 pandemic has clearly shown the world that pious optimism is simply insufficient; as Nigeria’s economy contracts in the wake of the pandemic, it is crucial that the country redouble its efforts to ensure that its abundant non-oil mineral resources are exploited to the fullest. In this regard, much more must be done to halt the activities of illegal miners. Adegbite’s announcement that prosecutions will henceforth be expedited is a good start. It is vital that illegal mining be treated as the criminal activity that it is, instead of the prevailing perception of it as merely unlicensed activity. Naming and shaming illegal mining barons would further help to demonstrate government’s reinvigorated opposition to their activities. Tracing them through their minions, disrupting their mining activities and making it impossible for them to sell illegally-acquired minerals would make it far less easy for them to operate than has hitherto been the case. Increased funding to legal miners is crucial to expanding the industry. In 2016, the then minister of Mines and Steel Development, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, announced a N30 billion intervention into the mining sector.  Little has been heard of the initiative since then. If legal miners are able to receive proper financing, they will have a greater stake in keeping their illegal counterparts out. An added benefit is better oversight of mining activities. Legal miners can be compelled to adhere to environmentally-compliant and safe mining practices as a condition of financial assistance. Proper clothing and equipment, regular training, approved mining techniques and the banning of minors would all help to increase profitability and reduce health risks. Another viable strategy involves ceding control over mining to states. The National Economic Council (NEC) is working with Fayemi as Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) to set up arrangements whereby states would have full control of their mineral resources. This too must become reality as quickly as possible. Like the enhanced funding of legal miners, granting states full authority over their mineral resources would give them greater incentive to ensure that illegal activity is kept to a minimum. The expansion of mining is vital to the diversification of the nation’s economy. As at 2018, it contributed 0.5 per cent to Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP), while accounting for 0.3 per cent of national employment and 0.02 per cent of exports. NEITI estimates that N416.32 billion was earned from the sector between 2007 and 2018, with N279.0 billion coming between 2015 and 2018. Countries like China, Australia and South Africa have shown the critical importance of mining to the development of national economies. If Nigeria is to join them, it must ensure that mining is safe, environmentally-compliant, properly financed and profitable. 