 The Nigeria Labour Congress and the Organised Private Sector (OPS) on Friday pleaded for Federal Government’s protection for workers against the onslaught of COVID-19. The NLC in particular  expressed concern over reports that workers’ salaries were being cut by employers and in some cases workers at the risk of losing their means of  livelihood. The OPS sought  support for  the growth and survival of businesses in the country, especially in the formal and informal sectors, as Nigeria continues to battle the economic impact of the coronavirus. President Muhammadu Buhari assured workers, especially those in the private sector, that government would do all within its power to protect them from  undue retrenchment. State governors saluted workers for their contribution to the general wellbeing of Nigerians. Governor  Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State doubled the life insurance for health workers in the state. The Nigeria Employers Consultative Association (NECA) and the Nigeria Labour Congress asked  the Federal Government to support the growth and survival of businesses in the country, especially in the formal and informal sector as Nigeria continues to battle the economic impact of Covid -19. Specifically, the NLC urged the government to ensure that the $3.5 billion stimulus package for small and medium enterprises (SMEs) and other businesses as announced by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) go to businesses in need of it. President of the NLC Ayuba Wabba in a solidarity message on the occasion  also appealed to  private and informal sector employers to show solidarity with workers by ensuring wage protection, income support especially through paid leave, and sick leave. Wabba said this critical period was not the time to stop or deduct from workers’ salaries, saying that such decision would be both illogical and illegal as workers’ salaries are core elements of employment contracts and collective bargaining agreements. He said the NLC has asked its affiliates and state councils to resist any salary deduction on the account of Covid-19. He also called on state governments who are yet to negotiate with workers on salary adjustment as a result of the N30, 000 new minimum wage to “quickly attend to this very urgent business.” In a similar message,the Director – General of NECA, Timothy Olawole warned  that if businesses failed to  survive the effects of Covid -19 within the shortest period, it could result in massive job losses in the country. He said: “It is our responsibility- government, employers and workers to ensure is that this does not occur.” “During the lockdown, activities of organised businesses and the informal sector were severely disrupted. For a country whose socio- economic environment was already challenging, the advent of the pandemic has placed additional burden on businesses and put thousands of workers under the threat of job losses. “Nevertheless, employers have remained faithful in their obligations to their workers despite the lockdowns and six weeks or thereabouts of non-productivity. As representative body of employers of labour, we have continued to encourage our members to continue to hold on and carter to the full compliments of their workforce for as long as it is practicable.”  Buhari: We’ll safeguard workers’ interest Buhari in his message delivered via  Zoom said  “I understand the anxiety which has plagued the minds of workers over the possibility of job losses due to economic downturn caused by the pandemic and lock-down especially in the private sector. “In this regard, the government will ensure that no employer would retrench or lay off workers without going through due process of social dialogue which includes consultations with workers and with the Competent Authority – Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment. “Furthermore, I had earlier put in place a Presidential Economic Sustainability Committee (ESC) with the objective of developing a credible sustainability plan for repositioning the Nigerian economy now and post Covid-19 crisis period.  “The ESC is required to specifically explore ways and means of growing our non-oil sector – all in a bid to minimise the adverse effects of the current crisis and to also protect existing jobs and even create new jobs to help absorb the teeming army of the unemployed even before the crises”, he said. The President told Nigerian workers that his administration had not just resigned to fate in the face of the outbreak, highlighting the various efforts so far taken to combat the health crisis. “In a bid to win this war, we set up a Presidential Task Force (PTF) made up of the relevant sector Ministers and highly skilled Health Technical Experts The government had to in a well-designed Expert Advice, lock down some States of the Federation where this pandemic is most prevalent – the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Abuja, Ogun and Lagos States. Lagos State was and still is the EPICENTRE of the disease and of late Kano had to follow because of the new eruptions of Covid-19 in the State. “Offices, businesses, and various forms of out-door activities have been put in abeyance so that “WE” as opposed to “I” factor may prevail so that we may live for tomorrow. Yes, it is a common problem and interest and it is at this time that we must be our brother’s keeper by ensuring that “I protect myself and protect others from me”. “I, therefore, ask Nigerian Workers both in the Public and Private Sectors with her FORMAL and INFORMAL ECONOMY to bear the stringent measures for a while for our common good. This would enable us put the ravaging pandemic under control and restore normalcy within the confines of relevant guidelines issued by health experts and the Government for safety against Covid-19 in order to curtail its spread.”  Sanwo-Olu doubles life insurance for health workers Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State used the occasion to show appreciation to  frontline health and emergency workers, whom he described as true heroes of this period , for sacrificing their personal wellbeing for the efforts at combating the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Government,he said,had “put in place additional health and life insurance for all our frontline health workers in the state to ensure that they are adequately insured. This gives them insurance protection on two levels.” He added: “As part of the ongoing efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19 in Lagos, we approved a 400 per cent increment in the Hazard Allowance of Health Officers in the State for the month of April. “We have also introduced a COVID-19 Allowance for all our frontline workers, which is a very generous amount that takes cognizance of the heightened risks of the jobs they have to do. All these are intended to appreciate the dedication of all our Health Officers in the fight against COVID-19. “My administration will always seek harmonious relationship with workers for the progress and prosperity of our State. The prompt approval and payment of the new minimum wage is a proof that we care about the welfare of our workforce.” “With effect from last January, Gov. Sanwo-Olu said his Government had increased the employers’ contribution to employees’ Retirement Savings Account (RSA) from 7.5 per cent to 10 per cent. This, he said, complemented employees’ contribution of 8 per cent, bringing it to a total of monthly contribution of 18 per cent. “Sanwo-Olu said his administration had also approved the monthly release of a pension bail-out fund to the tune of N1.083 billion.”  Kogi workers reject percentage salary payment The Kogi State chapter of the NLC said it would not accept any reduction in workers’ salary particularly at the local government and primary school levels. Chairman of the NLC in the state,Comrade Onu Edoka,told reporters in Lokoja that the workers were eagerly awaiting the payment of all their outstanding entitlements by government including the  30 percent balance of their  August to December 2017 salaries and other arrears, annual increments, promotion cash-backing and leave bonuses.  Fayemi promises Ekiti workers better welfare package The Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State in a broadcast  assured all workers in the state that his administration would continue to make their welfare a top priority. Fayemi applauded the workers for their efforts so far which he said had assisted the state to move forward with quality service delivery, assured his administration’s commitment to giving workers better welfare within the available meagre resources. He added the COVID-19 pandemic  in the state and its negative consequences, were largely responsible for the delayed implementation of the N30,000 minimum wage for senior workers in the state. He urged workers to be dedicated to their duties and support the government of the day with quality service delivery to contribute their quota to the development of the state. Fayemi  approved financial assistance for bedridden, vulnerable and widows in the civil service to assuage their sufferings.  We’re planning for post-lockdown in Kaduna ,says El -Rufai Governor Nasir El-Rufa’i of Kaduna State praised the resilience of citizens during the coronavirus lockdown. He said:”The responsibility to protect the vast majority of residents from the danger of widespread community transmission of Covid-19 has compelled the extension of the Quarantine Orders in Kaduna State. ”But this government has also asked a team of senior officials to begin thinking and planning for a post-lockdown scenario in Kaduna State. “The government is convinced that there is no tension between public safety and economic vitality. Rather both should be conceived as supportive of each other. ”That is why the lockdown has only been partial, to allow the operations of the most essential sector.” Ikpeazu calls for support in fight against COVID-19 Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State solicited the continued support of workers  in the  fight to combat the spread of COVID-19 pandemic in the state. “As government begins to consider a reassessment of the lockdown in the State our workforce must lead from the front in their conduct at the workplace by fully complying with all directives from the State Government,” he said. Ikpeazu described the civil servants  as the engine room of the state and pledged  the commitment of his administration to their welfare even in the face of present challenges. He remarked that although the COVID-19 pandemic would  make the coming months difficult for government,he would  keep the workforce fully apprised of the situation as they unfold, in line with the policy of his administration on transparency and openness.  Minimum wage most pressing issue confronting me amid COVID – 19 pandemic, says Abiodun Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State said  how to commence the payment of the minimum wage as agreed between his administration and the organised labour in the state was the biggest problem facing him apart from the fight against COVID-19. Abiodun said he was not unaware that the organised labour were expecting him to make certain pronouncements regarding their welfare, but explained that the administration was weighing options amid the impact of the COVID – 19 pandemic on the state resources. He said there would be a gradual resumption of work in various government offices for certain categories of public servants with effect from Monday, pledging that the details of the scheduled resumption would also be communicated to the affected categories of staff through circular. Abiodun said:”As part of our Administration’s sincere commitment to fulfil our part of the agreement on the payment, we have set up a joint committee with labour to assess the impact of COVID-19 on staff welfare and identify all the outstanding issues and how these could be addressed in the wake of COVID-19. “In the meantime, we are also setting up Staff Loans Board that will, amongst others, facilitate access to loans from banks at very concessionary interest rates and terms. “Let me reassure all our great workers and the entire people of our dear State that ours is not an Administration that reneges on its promises nor will we willfully default in same. The reality of our present situation brings into factual understanding of the prayers of our fathers, ‘May God not allow the unplanned thwart our lofty plans.” FG: We’ll  mitigate consequences of lockdown in aviation sector Aviation Minister  Hadi Sirika in his own solidarity message to workers in the sector promised aviation workers better days ahead in spite of the current hardship caused by the coronavirus-induced shutdown of the industry. He noted that  workers in the sector were among the hardest hit economically by the coronavirus pandemic ravaging the world, especially with the grounding of passenger flights and shutting down of services globally. He , however,  expressed  the belief that there’s a bright future for the Nigerian aviation industry after the dark times that it presently faces, hoping that the pandemic will be short-lived. The  Air Transport Services Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (ATSSSAN)  threatened to confront what it described as the unilateral and arbitrary cutting of members’ salaries and declaration of unpaid leave. National President of the association, Comrade Ahmadu Ilitrus and Deputy General Secretary, Comrade Frances Akinjole said in a statement lamented  that  the destructive and disruptive COVID-19 pandemic has removed the  funfair and glamour in the aviation industry. The ATSSSABN appealed  to the Federal Government for special intervention in the aviation industry Similar messages came from the National  Association of Aircraft Pilots and Engineers (NAAPE) and the  National  Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE)