 Several members of criminal and militia gangs terrorizing Benue and Nasarawa States have been killed during a raid on their respective hideouts, the Armed Forces of Nigeria has said. In a statement by the Coordinator Defence Media Operations, Major General John Enenche, the Special operation was conducted by a combined team of Operation Whirl Stroke Special Forces deployed in Gbise and Zaki Biam in Benue State and Sector 4 from Taraba State. “The troops raided the hideout of wanted notorious criminal, Gana and neutralised two of his gang members, while others escaped with gunshot wounds including the wanted criminal. ” The statement read, “in a special operation, a combined team of Operation WHIRL STROKE Special Forces troops of Sector 2 deployed in Gbise and Zaki Biam in Benue State and Sector 4 from Taraba State carried out a raid operation on the hideout of the wanted notorious criminal named Gana in Mtan village in Utenge Council Ward of Katsina-Ala LGA of Benue State on 16 July 2020.  “Two of the gang members were neutralized and others fled with various degrees of gunshot wounds. Exploitation revealed that Gana narrowly escaped death with gunshot wounds. Items recovered include: One locally fabricated machine gun, Six (6) locally made rifles, Two (2) locally fabricated cartridge guns, One (1) dane gun, Two (2) revolver pistols,Two(2) Cartridge pistols, 27 rounds of 9mm ammunition Two (2) Motorcycles, one Camouflage shirt, one generator set, one bag of gun powder and assorted charms. “Gana’s personal belongings, other items and thatched houses were destroyed”. Meanwhile troops of Sector 3 deployed at Ondori in Doma Local Government Area of Nasarawa State has busted a militia gang while planning to attack some Tiv villages. “In another development, troops of Sector 3 deployed at Ondori in Doma LGA of Nasarawa State acting on credible intelligence that a group of Bassa armed militia were planning to attack some Tiv villages over land disputes. “Troops raided their camp located at Kpelebewa village in Rukubi area of Doma LGA of Nasarawa State”, the statement added. It continued that, “troops apprehended seven members of the Bassa militia dressed in Red shirts in the camp. Items recovered include one locally fabricated machine gun, six locally fabricated rifles, two locally fabricated cartridge guns, one Dane gun, two revolver pistols, two Cartridge firing pistols, 57 rounds of 7.62mm special ammunition, 29 rounds of 9mm ammunition, and 22 cartridges of ammunition. Other items are one dagger, poisoned bows and arrows, desert Camouflage head gears and pouch, six phone handsets and some charms. The suspects are currently undergoing interrogation to be handed over to the Nigeria Police. “The Military High Command congratulates the Troops and requests the general public to continue to provide the Armed Forces with credible information to facilitate its operations in the Country”.