Dr Matshidiso Moeti , World Health Organisation (WHO) Regional Director for Africa, on Tuesday commended midwives across Africa for commitment to ensuring the safety of mothers and their newborn. Moeti said this in a statement issued by the WHO African Regional Office on Tuesday in Brazzaville, Congo, to commemorate the International Day of Midwives. Every year on May 5, the International Confederation of Midwives leads the world in celebrating the International Day of Midwives. The regional director praised the commitment of midwives in ensuring the safety of mothers and their newborn babies even at the frontlines of the COVID-19 pandemic. According to her, between 2000 and 2017, maternal and newborn deaths have declined by 40 per cent in the African Region. “Thanks largely to the commitment of midwives working with other health professionals. “However, one in two (53 per cent) of African midwives have reported feeling disrespected by fellow health workers in the course of their work. “We must therefore, do more to appreciate the valuable contributions of midwives in health care teams. “Countries are making strides to improve the skills and working environment for midwives.’’ Moeti said Ghana had introduced a graduate diploma in midwifery and revised job descriptions to give midwives more autonomy, adding that Lesotho was also interested in providing advanced levels of pre-service training. She said that in the African Region, WHO had worked with countries to strengthen regulatory framework and competency-based standardised education, training and practice for midwives, including integrated training for nursing and midwifery. “Faith-based training institutions in Botswana, Cameroon, Lesotho and Malawi are all using WHO’s midwifery curricula. “Experts from Sierra Leone, Zambia and WHO are supporting several countries to review their training curricula and regulatory instruments in line with WHO guidelines. “In the COVID-19 response, we are training nurses and midwives in infection prevention and control, to limit the transmission of this virus in health facilities. “So far, over 3000 front-line health workers, including midwives, have participated in webinars. These activities complement trainings led by chief nurses and midwifery officers in countries. “Countries are also making sure essential health services, like safe deliveries are not disrupted during the COVID-19 pandemic.’’ In Malawi, for instance, the regional director said, risk allowances for health workers, including midwives had been increased, and 2,000 more health workers had been recruited including 700 nurses and midwives. “Moving forward, we must ensure that the voices, perspectives and leadership of midwives, nurses and women are included and respected. “I therefore, call on governments, academic institutions, civil society organisations, and partners to invest in midwifery development from education to practice, with appropriate regulatory framework, support materials and human resources. “This is imperative to improve health outcomes for women and infants,’’ she said. According to Moeti, this year WHO is celebrating “Year of The Nurse and Midwife”, and so, this is an excellent opportunity to recognise the vital roles of midwives in assisting women with pregnancy, childbirth and during the postpartum period. “The theme for the 2020 International Day of Midwives is “Midwives with women: celebrate, demonstrate, mobilise, unite – our time is NOW”. “The theme emphasises the importance of mobilising communities and maintaining provision of essential health services, particularly as countries respond to the COVID-19 pandemic,” She said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the International Day of the Midwives was first celebrated on May 5, 1991, and has since been observed in over 50 nations around the world. The idea of having a day to recognise and honour midwives came out of the 1987 International Confederation of Midwives conference in the Netherlands. (NAN)