Women from the three senatorial districts of Edo State have endorsed the re-election of Governor Godwin Obaseki. The women declared their support for the governor on Thursday during separate news conferences in Benin. Market women from the 18 local government areas, a coalition of professional women, female teachers from all the LGAs, female leaders and members of the All Progressives Congress (APC), as well as female political office holders in Edo state, all stated that they were contributing their quota towards the purchase of the N22.5 million expression of interest and nomination forms, to enable Obaseki to have a second tenure. Leader of Edo market women association, Madam Blacky Ogiamen, stated that Obaseki was performing beyond expectations. Ogiamen said: “We want to appreciate Governor Obaseki, for the job well-done. Before he came into power, our former Governor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, as the patron of the market women then, told us categorically that if we give our support to Obaseki as governor, he would do a lot of projects, of which Obaseki is doing now. “We are solidly behind Governor Obaseki. We are ready to support him for another four years. We will contribute our widow’s mite to buy his forms, so that he will complete his two tenures as governor of Edo State.” Leader of the market women, while explaining why they decided to join forces to ensure the re-election bid of Edo governor, also stated that Obaseki had performed beyond what Oshiomhole promised them while introducing him to the market women. She noted that Obaseki had not in any way disappointed his immediate predecessor, stressing that God would not disappoint the incumbent Edo governor. Ogiamen said: “Governor Obaseki is not a noise maker, he is a man of peace. We will support him to win Edo State again for APC.” Edo Organising Secretary of APC, Dr. Aisosa Amadasun, during a meeting with the APC women leaders from the 18 LGAs of the state and female political office holders, all also endorsed Obaseki for a second term in office. Amadasun stated that the women represented the interest of all women in the APC in Edo state and that of the over 460 female political appointees, whom Edo governor appointed into office since the inception of his government over three years ago. The Acting State Women Leader of APC, Mrs. Maimuna Momodu, in her address, noted that women had never had it so good in Edo state, but they wanted more, which they said would only be actualised with the re-election of Obaseki. A coalition of women professionals, consisting of leaders and members of the Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA), Association of Private School Proprietors, Association of Female Pharmacists, Association of Women Engineers, National Association of Women Journalists (NAWOJ), female leaders of the NLC and the TUC in Edo state and members of the Idia College Old Students’ Association also addressed a news conference, during which they threw their weight behind Obaseki’s second term bid. Spokesperson the Coalition, Rev. Helen Odemwingie, noted that they decided not to be left out in determining who would become the next governor of Edo state. Odemwingie said: “We stand up to endorse our governor, Godwin Obaseki, and his deputy, Philip Shaibu. We are women, we have feelings and the passion in us for every child we see him as our own. You see the way Governor Obaseki has been honouring us, we have decided to contribute money for the purchase of his expression of interest and nomination forms.” The representatives of female teachers of the State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) from across the 18 LGAs of the state, also staged a presentation for the governor in which they declared their support for his re-election bid. Dressed specially for the occasion, bearing A4 size papers indicating each local government represented, the teachers said: “On behalf of the extraordinary 11,000 trained, digital and dynamic teachers of the 18 LGas of Edo State, we like to affirm our support for our amiable and dependable, able and diligent, innovative and trustworthy, dynamic and forward-thinking Governor Godwin Nogheghase Obaseki, the wake and see governor, for a second term. “As you stand out to represent our people, we the female teachers of Edo State are solidly behind you. Go forward.”