From social entrepreneurship to working for one of the world’s biggest accountancy firms, there are opportunities for graduates to explore. Organisations are supporting capacity building programmes to raise youths to take international jobs and sustain growth, DANIEL ESSIET. Investing in top class management education and the right skills is critical to a nation’s growth, development and competitiveness in a global setting. For many organisations, also skilled manpower beget employment and prosperity. Experts believe for Nigeria to increase its status a major economic hub in  Sub-Saharan Africa, efforts must be channelled towards developing home-grown business leaders able to access global markets and drive growth in a sustainable and inclusive manner. One of them is the Chairman, 7-up Bottling Co Plc, Faysal El-Khalil. He believes turning the youth bulge into opportunities should be the focus of public and private organisations in their approach to boosting job creation, entrepreneurship, and capacity development. El-Khalil said there was the need to support youths to attend business school that will contribute to their career success. While job applicants with MBAs on their resumes stand out to employers, he noted that the degree serves as a gateway to business leadership positions. To contribute to Nigeria’s growth, El-Khalil said Lebanese Nigeria Initiative (LNI), a non-governmental organisation, launched a yearly “Master of Business Administration (MBA) scholarship programme,” for Nigerians to study at the American University of Beirut (AUB) in Lebanon. He said: “One of the things that we have recently done is that we have launched an endowment with the American University of Beirut, which is one of the best universities in the Middle East and one of the outstanding in the world, whereby every year a Nigerian will be selected to go and do a MBA Programme at the American University of Beirut, all expenses paid: tuition, boarding, lodgement, food and travel. “About seven years ago, we also launched a similar scholarship programme in the best business school that is well known in the world, the Harvard Business School, where every year, a Nigerian goes to the HBS and does his two-year MBA Programme. “In fact, as we speak, there are at least seven Nigerians who have done their MBA and have returned to Nigeria.” LNI established a $1.5million scholarship for Nigerian MBA candidates to study at AUB. The Consul-General of Lebanon in Nigeria, Mr Elias Nicolas, said the scholarship will boost the quality of knowledge in Nigeria and drive development initiatives at all levels in the society. He said: “The AUB is a globally recognised institution of learning and I am confident that the beneficiaries of this scholarship will be equipped with knowledge and skills that would help them contribute meaningfully to the development of Nigeria upon their return back home. ”The scheme is aimed at further strengthening the existing friendly relations between the two countries. “The Lebanese community has always seen itself as part of the social fabric of Nigeria, the scholarship is a sign of its commitment towards the educational upliftment of young Nigerians.” Last year, United States Washington DC-based Nexford University announced two collaborations with IBM and Sterling Bank, one of Nigeria’s leading commercial banks. The university said the partnerships with IBM and Sterling Bank is aimed at preparing African youths on the skills needed for today’s workforce. Nexford University will leverage its graduate and undergraduate degrees along with the IBM Digital – Nation Africa programme – to up-skill students, including Sterling Bank employees. IBM’s flagship skills development programme aims to accelerate Africa’s digital literacy and empower youths in the continent by developing their technology and innovation skills and addressing three major gaps: skills, innovation and jobs. ”At IBM, being a trusted company means going beyond the technology we offer. We work with key institutions, such as Nexford, to address the societal impact of digital technology; leveraging our investment education with platforms such as IBM Digital – Nation Africa,” said IBM Country General Manager, West Africa Dipo Faulkner. He added: “Our commitment – and our entire industry’s obligation – is to build a workforce that is ‘tomorrow ready.’” According to the World Bank, in Sub-Saharan Africa alone, the digital revolution can increase growth by nearly two percentage points per year. When paired with stronger investments in human capital, impact across Africa could more than double, the bank reports. Nexford has also joined forces with Sterling Bank, one of Africa’s most agile companies, to help empower bank employees to succeed in jobs of the future and master in-demand skills. Sterling will sponsor 200 of its employees on Nexford’s online MBA degree. “At Sterling, experiential learning is critical to enabling our most prized resource – our employees! We always look for innovative ways to support them to be the best versions of themselves,” said Sterling Bank’s Chief Human Resources Officer, Temi Dalley. Sterling Bank Employee Scholarship recipients will learn the skills to help them advance in life, such as innovation, and global business management. In addition to practising core business skills, learners can choose from elective courses or specialise in hot topic areas, including Sustainability, Managing Hyperconnectivity and Doing Business Across the World. “Sterling Bank is one of our biggest employee scholarships in West Africa,” noted Olamidun Majekodunmi, Nexford’s Nigeria Country Manager, adding: “It further emphasises our value proposition to employers as well as our credibility in delivering workplace skills.” Nexford has also partnered  world-leading organisations, such as Microsoft, and has built partnerships all over the world, including in Nigeria, Egypt and the Philippines. Partnering world-leading organisations aligns with Nexford’s business model.