 THE government envisaged a ‘gradual easing’ of the lockdown: the people executed a chaotic, mass breakout from confinement. By the end of Monday, May 4, 2020, the day residents of Lagos, Ogun and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) were free to move about after a five week shutdown, all the best laid plans of the Boss Mustapha-led Presidential Task Force (PTF) were in tatters. Some of the most anarchic scenes played out, predictably, in Lagos, where from early morning huge crowds besieged bank premises in a desperate bid to lay hands on cash. In one viral video, four security staff of a bank battled gamely to prevent the surging crowd from forcing their way through the narrow pedestrian gate and overrunning the facility. People in a faint nod at Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) guidelines had cloth masks across nose as they pressed on others in front of them – social distancing be damned! Commercial buses whom state authorities had asked to operate at 60% capacity were largely back in business as usual, packed to the rafters. I read the account of a bus conductor who suggested that many drivers were willing to obey but the existing system of extortion by transport union enforcers and the police made the economics unworkable. Giving his assessment of how the first day went, NCDC chief, Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, in a massive case of understatement said the conduct of Nigerians had been unacceptable. He then suggested that if people don’t behave and infections rise, the authorities may have no choice than to lockdown again. I don’t see that happening in a hurry. The spike would have to be earth-shaking to provoke such a response. What drove the policy initially – science – isn’t able to sustain it in the face of political and economic pressures. Consider this. Last Monday, after President Muhammadu Buhari announced a 14-day lockdown of Kano, many were relieved that firm action was finally being taken to contain the spate of deaths believed to be linked to Covid-19. But many were shocked when Governor Abdullahi Ganduje barely days after began campaigning for government to relax the measure. He followed up last Saturday with the stunning announcement that he had relaxed the shutdown and people were free to go shopping for essentials on two days. Before his dramatic action, he didn’t consult the PTF. Perhaps he knew they would discountenance his request, so he went straight to the president who he said granted approval. This confusing flip-flop was even harder to understand when Dr. Sani Gwarzo, the PTF coordinator sent to Kano to conduct investigations announced that mysterious deaths that had claimed several prominent citizens of the state were related to Covid-19. He was merely confirming what many had long suspected. The upshot is that while official figures hover around 100, actual fatalities may be much higher. Bear in mind that undertakers in Kano had been reporting burials in the hundreds in a matter of days. So coronavirus may have claimed hundreds of lives while we comfort ourselves with official statistics – and this is not being sensational. A continuing story line in the evolution of the pandemic is the fact that two states – Kogi and Cross River – haven’t reported a single case despite being surrounded by states with multiple infections. Could it be that the authorities in these states know something about keeping the virus at bay that others don’t? If they do, they are not sharing the secret with the rest of the country – just content to enjoy their perfect, infection-free cocoons! What they do know and have been sharing is mindboggling. Kogi State Information Commissioner, Kingsley Fanwo, claims there’s an “unholy conspiracy to declare Covid-19 in all states of the federation.” He then pointedly alleged that there were “recent pressures from some interesting quarters for Kogi State to find and declare cases of the disease.” This is a serious allegation. Unfortunately, he doesn’t say who’s behind this conspiracy. But even without that information, we can discuss motive. In whose interest is it that Kogi is listed among infected states? Buhari, NCDC or the PTF? Perhaps, he is talking about local political rivals of Governor Yahaya Bello. Even if that were the case, the state wouldn’t be an exception as 34 others are already infected. It also has a long way to go to catch the likes of Lagos, Kano and FCT. The case of Cross River is equally outlandish. State governor, Ben Ayade, fancies himself some sort of intellectual maverick who refuses to follow the popular path in dealing with the pandemic. That’s fine. In Brazil and Sweden the leaders disdained conventional wisdom, now they are paying with deaths in the thousands. It would appear that not only are people jealous of the amazing tactics deployed by the governor to shut the virus out of Cross River, these faceless malevolent forces are working overtime to ensure the state is listed as infected. State Commissioner for Health, Betta Edu, made the astonishing claim that people were being offered millions just to accept that they are infected with coronavirus. Who would make such an offer? Who would consider it believable? In any case, if indeed millions were truly on offer, dear commissioner, many would gladly jump at the giveaway – shooting your state up the Covid-19 rankings. So with Nigeria nowhere the peak of infections the strategy seems to be hope and pray that responsible conduct on the part of citizens would help slow the rate of infections and fatalities until a vaccine is ready. I am not too optimistic. Nigerians are so used to living with killers they are not going to be easily intimidated by a virus they can’t see or touch. Every year thousands of our people are killed by malnutrition, various types of sickness and disease, extra-judicial killings and terrorism just to mention a few. So, for many, this virus is just an upstart killer joining a long queue. And as we do every day in these parts, the battle to outwit coronavirus is now down to every man for himself. 