 THE Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 has got a boost with the donation of medical items including personal protective equipment (PPE). Many communities across the country also got the tools aimed at facilitating the containment of the coronavirus pandemic. The donation was made by Oilserv Group of Companies. The medical supplies worth over N70 million ordered for NNPC include 6000 disposable snout masks, 1500 hand gloves, 80 cartons of face shields and 4000 disposable protective suits. The digital medical tools include 1200 infrared thermometers, 250 facial and temperature monitors, and 2500 COVID 19 rapid test kits with capacity for 15 minutes result. According to the company, NNPC is expected to deliver the medical supplies for utilization by Rivers State, Anambra State, Enugu State and the Presidential Task Force. To cushion the effect of the pandemic on families Oilserv donated 350 bags of rice to four different host communities in Rivers State. Woji community received 100 bags, Rumuibekwe got 100 bags, Ogale Eleme received 50 bags and Uzuaku community in Abia state 100 bags. The Group also donated over 3,000 bags of rice and 8000 tubers of yam to families in Oraifite and Ozubulu in Ekwusigo Local Government Area of Anambra state. At Umueshi hall Irefi Oraifite, Oilserv distributed food items worth over N40 million. The food items distributed to the people comprise tons of rice and yam. Besides Oraifite and Ozubulu communities, other institutions, organisations and groups within the area also benefited from the largesse. The firm under the sponsorship of Sir Emeka Okwuosa Foundation has delivered over 3500 bags of rice and 8000 yam tubers to a number of communities in Rivers, Abia and Anambra States as it tours selected communities across the country with food palliatives for families impacted by the economic shu tdown due to coronavirus. The Oilserv Group and Sir Emeka Okwuosa Foundation stated that it became necessary to rise in support of the government and the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) in the collective effort to contain the spread of the disease and also palliate the impact on Nigerians. The intervention package from Oilserv Group valued at over N100 million would be the biggest single donation by any indigenous oil service company in the coronavirus fight. The company had already featured prominently in the collective contribution by the Petroleum Technology Association of Nigeria (PETAN) under the guidance of the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB). Director of the Sir Emeka Okwuosa foundation, Hon. Azuka Okwuosa, said the group believes in the power of humanity to solve any challenge, adding that the belief is deeply rooted in commitment to impact lives positively and to support the government at this difficult time. Since its inception in 1992, Oilserv has remained a major player in the forefront of indigenous capacity development in the petroleum industry. The Group also delivers infrastructural development projects in other sectors of the country. 