 Nigeria is struggling to contain the spread of the coronavirus as figures of confirmed cases and deaths are on the increase. TOBORE OVUORIE, who has been following up on Nigerians for their COVID-19 experiences, reports that there are other ‘viruses’ that would cause major distresses in the country than the one the world is presently grappling with. COVID-19 LOCKDOWN SHOULD REMAIN “I am sure we are aware of the news all over the globe; in developed countries. What they are experiencing now, we don’t want to wish such here, we should not even want to see anything near that. “So, we should do everything to encourage the lockdown but more importantly, the government needs to address insecurity, hunger and to see to the welfare of its citizens. If there is food, I am sure people will sit at home. So, government needs to device a means.” Those were the words of Mr. Olusoji Bamisile, a printer who resides in Akute, Ogun state. He thinks relaxation of the COVID-19 lockdown in the country, which took effect from May 4 is, premature. “What should be looked out for right now is how people can survive. I think the government needs to do better. I don’t think it is difficult to get to the poor and needy. It’s not difficult. It is easy. The government is just not using the right approach,” he says. https://soundcloud.com/user-148269801/covid-19-lockdown-should-continue-in-nigeria-1 Soji, as he is known in his neighborhood and among associates, is not the only Nigerian clamoring for the COVID-19 lockdown to remain and fully implemented.  Olusola Lasisi, a Business Consultant and strategist does, too. “The spread of the virus has had an increase in the population in which some have died, some are still in intensive care and some have recovered. So, we are trusting God that more people will recover but I believe the lockdown should still stay so that there will be more opportunity for social distance,” he says with so much passion. “Really, just stay in your houses so that in Nigeria we will be able to curb the numbers of new cases.” Asked respectively if they had so much cash starched somewhere due to the confidence with which they called for extension of the lockdown, Soji and Olusola said no. In short, life has not been anything close to rosy for them while their businesses are being threatened by the COVID-19. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ECVkDClo0Vs WEDNESDAY APRIL 15TH, 2020 Soji was interviewed for the first time on April 15, few days after the Nigerian government extended the initial lockdown in the country. He said he was out of business and doing nothing because the customers who should request for his printing services had actually stopped doing so two weeks before the initial lockdown was announced. “About two weeks before the eventual announcement of the lockdown, business had taken a downturn, really. So, it is as good as my income source is shut out for now,” he reiterated. Soji said he was surviving on his little savings and getting help from close associates as well as his church – The Father’s House Church, Akute, Ogun State, where he was on the queue to collect some food items when he granted the interview for this story. The very first time the lockdown was announced, the church started giving out food to members and non-members. It continued after the lockdown was extended. https://soundcloud.com/user-148269801/nigerian-covid-19-lockdown-experience-1 On April 15 when Olusola was interviewed for the first time, he said the emergence of COVID-19 has not been easy for his business. Initially, he had trouble evaluating the situation and wondered out of anxiety if his business would survive the crisis. He is adjusting to the reality that life may never be the same Post COVID-19, so, he is acquiring more knowledge and different skills to set him apart. https://soundcloud.com/user-148269801/nigerian-covid-19-experience-2 Mr. Fidelis Okonicha, a Pastor and Fashion and Style Entrepreneur, says the COVID-19 and attendant lockdown has been “fascinating in a way.” He lives in Lagos state where the lockdown started ahead of Ogun state where he runs his fashion business. He was thus caught in the middle but opted for shutting down his business in line with the Lagos state requirement. He said on April 14th, he ran out of cash and was left with no choice but to start spending his business capital. NIGERIA NEEDS COVID-19 FEASIBLE PLANS Mr. Okonicha holds a slightly different view from Soji and Olusola. He feels the Nigerian government should adopt the Czech Republic model, which enforces social distancing and wearing of masks. He says Nigerians live on daily earnings so the government should come up with actionable plans. “I believe most Nigerians live on daily earnings. Even those who work, if they pay you N30,000 divide it by 30 days, it is daily earning, so, if the government cannot give palliatives to keep people at home, the government should enforce social distancing, enforce the use of mask but allow people to go and do their daily businesses with all the measures enforced by government. https://studio.youtube.com/video/Z511TnTKRSY/edit “In another word, people should go out because we do not have the funds to continue staying at home. If you stay at home, you are not bringing in anything; the money is going down because of that daily earning. People should be allowed to go out if the government will not provide palliatives for people. Allow them to go out but maintain all social distancing, covering of nose, doing all that is needed to prevent the spread except the government wants to make sure Nigerians are supported enough to stay indoors,” he said. RECREATED LIVING PATTERN The various persons interviewed say coronavirus has caused major shifts in their lives. While many are still bewildered and yet to get a grasp on the new realities that have befallen them, others are learning to adjust creatively because they fear life might never go back to as it were before the arrival of the deadly virus. Several persons spoken highlighted there have been major alterations in their domestic lives such as in drinking water and nutrition. The birthing of the coronavirus in Nigeria has led to the increase in the price of drinking water – bottled and sachet. Thus, many who cannot afford to continually pay for these now drink water sourced directly from taps in their homes or from outside sources. Some of these persons have devised various techniques of treating the water, while others are not bothered; they simply drink it untreated. Olusola says due to the price hike in the cost of drinking water, he gets water from the tap, adds a chemical called water-guard into it for 30 minutes, and it is ready for consumption. Mr. Okonicha has changed his drinking water source, too. He says he used to drink sachet water and buy them in bags before the COVID-19 crisis started, but after its arrival and the drinking water price was hiked, he began to research for a way out. https://soundcloud.com/user-148269801/nigeria-covid-19-lockdown-experiencence-3 “So, I drink my borehole water but my wife just does a treatment with a clay pot. That is what I drink now. I no longer buy to cut cost. I drink the borehole water treated by my wife with a clay pot she bought from the market.” Mrs. Okonicha says it is a natural treatment she got on the internet. She puts the water in the pot for 24 hours. And, after a while, she brings it out, shares into containers and refills the pot. “So, that is what I am using; the natural cleaning system for my borehole water. I no longer buy because of the price that has gone up”. INNOVATIVE FOOD PATTERN BIRTHED The coronavirus pandemic and attendant economic hardship have got the Okonichas thinking, researching and being creative with food and nutrition. They started eating more during the lockdown because they had more time at their hands. They doubted if there would be much changes from May 4th, 2020 because it is a ‘partial’ lifting of the lockdown that was declared by the government. “More is being spent on food. But one thing we have done is to look for cheaper means of spending money because the garri we use has gone up in price. My wife had to change to using corn. She bought corn, ground it, mixed it with lafu; it is smoother and better than semovita. That is what we use and I hear it is more nutritious,” Okonicha said. For Olusola, he has tied his shoelaces by reducing his eating habit to the barest minimum. He now takes little portion of food in the morning and night. In place of lunch, he gets books to read in order to acquire more knowledge in his field and business. MASSIVE ECONOMIC DOWNTURN AWAITS NIGERIA “A number of businesses will collapse,” Dr. Franca Attoh, an Associate Professor at the Sociology Department, University of Lagos declared in an interview on April 29th. According to her, the makeup industry will be the first business that will collapse because even when Nigerians resume work, any business which will bring about close proximity of persons will be on hold. Thus, makeup artists and other party or close proximity-related businesses will suffer. “I won’t call the girl who makes my nails because I don’t know where she has been these past four weeks. We need to keep safe. I can see the men in my house have bought a Do-It-Yourself shaving creme that is rubbed on the hair and beards and everything comes off. It means those who own barbing saloons will also be out of business,” she further declared. “I can never bring myself to go do facials now because the person will be breathing down you, so it’s not safe. So, gradually, there will be a new economic order,” she added. Dr. Attoh said COVID-19 will be a small problem Nigeria would tackle in the next one year when the virus and its attendant medical crisis is over. “We will begin to look at the economic effect of COVID-19 and I can tell you it is going to be massive.” THE ‘STRONGER VIRUSES’ THAN COVID-19 Dr. Attoh’s ‘prediction’ of a massive economic meltdown in the next one year has been birthed prematurely because ahead of the partial resumption of  economic activities – after being locked-in at home for six weeks-  many Nigerians did not resume at their desks or places of work due to loss of jobs. Some commercial banks and private firms have had to retrench many employees and enforce salary-cuts, while even media organizations have been affected, negatively. Many entrepreneurs too are unable to resume as their businesses are required to remain shut down in compliance with the government’s COVID-19 prevention guide. “The lockdown has affected me mentally because I have not been earning anything at all and I have a lot of financial commitments. It has been very hard; sleeping, waking up, drinking the garri I have. I have been really down. “There is no money coming in, only money going out. It has affected me emotionally. As we speak now, my sister’s wedding is supposed to come up but there is even no money. I am feeling it, really. I feel like crying now but I am a man, so I won’t cry,” Joshua James, a Fitness Coach and Swimming Instructor lamented on April 19th when he granted the initial interview for this story. Contacted May 2nd for a follow-up ahead of the publication of this story, Joshua stuttered all through the interview saying he wouldn’t be resuming work anytime soon because the government has declared all fitness centers, which includes swimming-pools, remain shut indefinitely. https://soundcloud.com/user-148269801/nigerian-covid-19-experience-4 He said the little savings he had got exhausted before the six-week lockdown ended and he doesn’t have a salary coming from anywhere because he is a per day earner who depends on money from clients. Now, he walks around begging close associates to assist him with whatever money or food they can part with. “Whatever they have is what we take even if they give us N100 we collect it. That N100 now is like N10 million. We collect it and manage it. That is what we have been doing during this COVID-19 period. “Everybody is hungry like seriously hungry so everyone is looking for means of surviving. We want to go back to work; want to get back to doing something. I am tired of staying at home,” he sounded frustrated over the phone. Joshua yet believes lifting the lockdown isn’t the solution Nigeria needs at the moment as the coronavirus is spreading fast amongst the populace in the country. He shares same thought with Soji and Olusola. “If we want to look at the COVID-19, people can still stay at home if the government can help with security and keeping their promises. I know they can do it but I don’t know what is happening,” he added. Subsequent checks on him ahead of the publication of this story reveal he is still out of work and now trying to adjust to the COVID economic reality. https://youtu.be/xBJc_l_Yv9E Mr. Kayode Ajayi, a commercial motorcycle rider and event decorator, who works in Lagos state, is a double-victim of the COVID-19. Commercial motorcycle riders popularly known as Okada were banned from operating in Lagos state even before the coronavirus arrived Nigeria. He suffered a massive loss because his services as an okada rider was his major source of income. Luckily, he is a trained event decorator, so, fell back on that skill until coronavirus happened. With the partial lifting of the lockdown, the Lagos state government reiterated Okada riders remain banned in the state, while large gatherings, such as witnessed in parties, are also banned. This leaves Ajayi with no job. During the six-week lockdown, Ajayi moved around begging for money to fend for his four kids and wife but suffered another major loss. He disclosed during the first interview with him on April 16th that someone had assisted him with some money with which he and his wife used in buying ingredients to prepare soup. When the soup was almost ready, his wife entered the house to put some water in the kettle so she could prepare amala. By the time she returned to the kitchen which they share with neighbours, the pot of soup had disappeared on the stove. “I am still shocked and I have no work doing right now while my children are hungry and I can’t look away. If it were we the parents alone, we can bear the hunger pangs, but children cannot. They are so young and crying in the house because they are very hungry,” Ajayi lamented. He met this reporter for the first time when he stopped her on the road to ask if she knew of any place where food or alms were being given to people. https://soundcloud.com/user-148269801/nigerian-covid-19-experience-5 “I have four children. After the pot of soup was stolen, we have placed our fate in God’s hands. There is nothing I can really do than to beg around for alms and wherever we see they are sharing food, we go there, join the queue, press and push one another in the process, until we are able to get whatever is being distributed. If it is garri we are able to grab, we will take it like that, drink it and sleep in the night.” He suspects a passerby who must have been monitoring his wife while she was cooking stole the pot of soup because the kitchen is located by the road on the street. He believes in the lockdown and thinks it should not be lifted yet if the government can assist people like him with money; he would stay at home because feeding is the daunting challenge. “The lockdown has affected my business because I’m an event decorator and no one wants to hold a party right now,” he added. When this reporter phoned him May 2nd for a follow up discussion, Ajayi said with the ban on his two means of livelihood, he is confused and doesn’t know what the future holds for his children. He sounded very distraught and anxious. Mr. Oghenekome Daniel, a security consultant, warns that Nigerians should become more security conscious because crime rate would increase due to the looming economic recession. “With many persons losing their jobs in difficult times as this, when left with no resources to fall back on, they could seek drastic solutions such as crime. “Many persons don’t know where the next meal will come from and those whose pay could barely take them through the month are either losing their jobs or having their pay slashed. Don’t you think such persons are vulnerable and could become very desperate?” he queried. Daniel advised the government should be proactive and ensure it comes up with feasible and well implemented plans to cushion the untold hardship that have engulfed the country. He warns that there would be an increase in the rate of suicide because more Nigerians will become depressed and won’t be able to cope mentally. MENTAL INSTABILITY, MAJOR DISTRESSES AWAIT NIGERIANS Dr. Anthony Okeregbe, a senior lecturer at the philosophy department, University of Lagos, says it is not only banks that will cut their workforce. Other private and smaller firms whose employees have been working from home during COVID-19 would be affected as owners of such organizations would have discovered that fewer persons worked from home using technology. Thus, employees who didn’t actively work from home during the lockdown would be laid off. “Where you have a job of three persons being handled by a person using internet and other social media devices, the other two persons might be affected. We should be ready for job loss because the economy is very low and you cannot think of paying salaries when you have such situations to deal with,” he warns. He says many businesses will be negatively affected because the paralysis the COVID-19 has caused the economy is enormous. According to Dr. Okeregbe, there will be a lot of distresses in various sectors of the nation, even in government, while contractors will also be affected. He said the various academic institutions will struggle with covering the curriculum truncated by the COVID-19. For instance, some institutions like the University of Lagos would want to maintain their academic calendar so it doesn’t disturb the school year and this will lead to lecturers wanting to use two to three weeks to cover a two-month scheme of work lost to the coronavirus. “Challenges will be there; students will be frustrated because all of them want to come back to school but I foresee the frustration and tension that school life will cause.” He said the COVID-19 will cause a psychological disorientation by affecting the way people think and causing mental instability. Dr. Okeregbe said he now has a very sad and bitter perception about the way things are carried out in Nigeria. “You see people donating millions and you see virtually nothing,” he added. He lamented that Nigeria is moving in circles and heading nowhere with the present activities in the country, noting there is a lot of activities going on but moving at counter purposes. He said this already depresses so many Nigerians. Dr. Okeregbe said there would be massive migration, particularly brain drain, for instance, amongst university lecturers who are already becoming disillusioned at the happenings in the country. COVID-19: MENTAL INSTABILITY, MAJOR DISTRESSES AWAIT NIGERIANS by INSIGHT 360 STORIES Mr. Ayo Moses, brand story strategist at Brandstory, Lagos, in a telephone interview said the world before the emergence of COVID-19 has changed and the media is not talking about it enough. “The world has changed forever. Whatever skills you have that is not digital compliant, you will need to update yourself with digital tools, so that you can survive.” He says most airports globally are shutdown, while businesses are sacking their employees. With the realization that people can actually work remotely, no entrepreneurs or industrialist will return after COVID-19 to hire hundreds and millions and thousands of people again. He warns that business owners will rather invest in technology because that is the future. Governments across Africa, even in Nigeria, will divert much of its resources to technology because it is now clear to everyone that they need to have a system that is pandemic proof. “The average Nigerian should look at how to digitize their skills and reduce physical contacts with other human beings for now pending when a solution is found. And, even when a solution is found for COVID-19, the world itself will never be the same. So, effectively, people should upgrade their skills, upgrade their knowledge and of course, do same with their businesses,” he advised. 