Some days before President Muhammadu Buhari announced the phased easing of the lockdown on Lagos, Ogun and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Apostle Johnson Suleman of the Omega Fire Ministry offered to heal COVID-19 patients. He passionately pleaded with governments for access to isolation centres. Many of us first got to know the Apostle when he was accused of an extramarital affair. The scandal nosedived when the accuser ‘confessed’ to being an agent of falsehood. His voice rose, his gesture reinvigorated and his mien expanded as he spoke into the microphone in his church’s expansive hall: “Please permit us to go and pray for COVID-19 patients. Allow us to go there, that is why there are men of God. “If you are really anointed to pray for the sick, this is the time because what is holding the world is sickness. So, we’re begging the government to permit us into isolation centres; that is the only way we can reduce this nonsense because it will improve every day. “There are people with the gift of healing. God has gifted them to pray for the sick. It is not fake, gimmick or arranged. It is there in them. Permit us so that we can prove there are prophets in Nigeria. “Permit us so that the ridicule and all that can reduce. We’re not telling you we can heal all of them, but by the time we are through with them, you’ll see a significant difference. If they are 20 before, at least 18 will be cleared because that is what God can do.” His claim is despite the World Health Organisation’s (WHO’s) warning against unscientific statements suggesting a cure for the Coronavirus. Apostle Suleman was an addition to the population of religious leaders who believe the killer virus could be handled through divine intervention. One such pastor died of the disease in America after ignoring social distancing and holding services. If the Apostle is laying claim to healing powers over the virus, a big Imam in Kano and the leader of the Izala movement believes the disease is a lie. He told a huge crowd days back to ignore claims of the virus. His voice carries weight and he lent it to rubbishing the virus in a state whose patients’ figures are rising like soaked garri and unexplained huge deaths are being recorded. The Kano COVID-19 team is quoted as saying an autopsy was against Kano’s tradition and religion, which is Islam. The team said a verbal autopsy was done on the bodies. Allowing religion to dictate to us on a matter of life and death will render useless the fact that Coronavirus is a phase in our lives. Phases always pass, but with stupid attitudes here and there, they certainly will take a longer time to pass! The same day I saw the Imam’s video, I also saw a video of a huge crowd in Kano. Their message: “Babu Corona”, meaning “There is no Corona”. Already the Imam’s message is sinking; how deep it will go, only time will tell, and how rough it will make our road to getting out of the pandemic, I have no idea. But my fears are mounting day by day. Clearly, the way many of us have handled the pandemic shows that we subscribe to the Imam’s position. Or, are we looking up to the Apostle for healing should we fall victim? I am yet to fully grasp the crowd at the burial of the father of ex-Borno State Governor Ali Modu Sheriff. The mosque was packed. Shoulder to shoulder, people prayed. Some wore masks. Plenty did not. Social distancing was interred. This was a week or so after President Muhammadu Buhari’s Chief of Staff Abba Kyari was buried without respect for social distancing. On behalf of the president, Kyari visited Germany at a time it was beginning to feel COVID-19’s pang to seal a deal with Siemens. He came home via the United Kingdom and days later it turned out he sealed more than he bargained for during the March trip. He passed on a fortnight ago. Those who received favour in Kyari’s sight are singing his praises, those who did not say he was a member of the cabal First Lady Aisha Buhari spoke about, and those who had no dealing with him are not sure of what to believe. His burial had the trappings of the Yoruba kings of yore. In the years gone by, senior Yoruba obas were not allowed to go to the journey of no return alone. Some aides who had been prepared almost all their lives had to die with him. They were called abobaku. Kyari was not a king in the sense we know, but it looked like some people elected to be abobaku in his case. Given his pedigree, I am not surprised. A cerebral man like Kyari should have company in the hereafter and many took the risk of providing the company. COVID-19, as we all know, is active even in a dead body, though not like Ebola. Elsewhere bodies are buried without fanfare. That was why Minister of Information Lai Mohammed told us no dead patient of COVID-19 would be released to his family for burial. Kyari was buried by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) but more than family members were in attendance. For Kyari’s sake, why should anyone bother about social distancing? Why should protective gears matter? Why shouldn’t a man touch his body with bare hand? Why should it matter that the grave was not as deep as we saw in other parts of the world? Why should it matter that faithful pray for him shoulder to shoulder before he was lowered into the grave? I have seen some people complain that the lockdown rules were broken by flying his COVID-19 infected body from Abuja to Lagos. There was also the complaint that he was treated privately at First Cardiology in Ikoyi when others were in isolation centres. Some people are also crying that almost 500 people gathered for the burial. This, they claimed, broke the Federal Government rule that not more than 20 people can gather at a point in time. I also saw a complaint about burying him in a shallow grave in the centre of town. Some even clamoured that everyone at the burial must self-isolate for 14 days after the burial. I have a simple answer for all these. George Orwell answered it all in ‘Animal Farm’ when he opined that “all animals are equal but some are more equal than the others”. These men who broke all rules to give Kyari their last respects in person were only appreciating his pedigree, his class, his clout and the fact that he should not be treated as a commoner. The great man need not ask; they knew their right. Unknown to us, some of them, especially the ones who did not attempt to protect themselves, and even the ones who, despite wearing protective clothing, still inappropriately touched their faces, might have elected to be abobaku. Kyari was their king and should get his due by being accompanied on his final journey. We have no right to begrudge them. It is a great honour. When I see a worthy king, I shall gladly accept to be buried alive with him! The only problem is that I doubt the existence of such a king! My final take: Religions are good but when we begin to substitute them with stupidity the results can never be good. God, I believe, is merciful and will understand that at a time like this some obligations have to be forfeited.