Five states – Gombe, Sokoto, Akwa Ibom, Ondo and Bayelsa – on Tuesday discharged 94 COVID-19 former patients. The former patients had tested negative twice and were certified fit to leave the isolation centres. Chairman of Gombe State Task Force on COVID-19, Prof. Idris Mohammed, announced the discharge while giving reporters an update on efforts by the state to combat its spread. He said out of the 59 persons discharged, 20 were admitted at the Federal Teaching Hospital (FTH) Gombe and the remaining 39 at Kwadon isolation centre in Yamaltu-Deba Local Government Area of the state. The Sokoto State government said it discharged 22 out of 75 Coronavirus patients in its isolation centre in Amanawa after they tested negative twice. Chairman of the State Task Force Committee on COVID-19 and Commissioner for Health, Dr Ali Inname, addressed reporters on Tuesday during an update on the pandemic. The commissioner said the state had 106 confirmed COVID-19 cases as at May 11, out of which 12 had died. “However, out of the 75 active cases, we have successfully discharged 22 persons who dually tested negative of COVID-19, making a total of 41 patients discharged out of the 106 confirmed cases in the state,” he said. A nursing mother and four others were discharged in Akwa Ibom after the National Centre for Diseases Control (NCDC) said they had tested negative twice. One of the survivors is a medical worker with the University of Uyo Teaching Hospital (UUTH). Health Commissioner Dr. Dominic Ukpong said the nursing mother was given special treatment at home because she had a seven-months baby and two other infants aged two and three to care for. Ondo State Information and Orientation Commissioner Donald Ojogo said the five patients were successfully treated of COVID-19. The index case in Bayelsa State and two other cases linked to her were discharged after testing negative twice for the virus. The former patients were treated at the Niger Delta University Teaching Hospital (NDUTH) Isolation Centre. The Co-Chairman of the State COVID-199 Task Force and Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Health, Dr Inodu Apoku, announced this on Tuesday while addressing reporters in Yenagoa, the state capital.