As an expert in the field of mental health, why did you think commemorating the month with your #31for31 will drive home your message? Over time, mental health has taken a back seat in our conversations. Not much focus and attention has been given to the topic by individuals, the community and even the government. In spite of the poor attention, mental health is a significant part of our lives and is a determinant of the quality of life of individuals. The WHO estimates that one in four persons at some point in their lives will develop a mental health or neurological disorder. In addition, about 450 million persons worldwide have a mental health disorder, placing mental disorders among the leading causes of ill-health and disability worldwide. Unfortunately however, 2/3rds of persons with the disorders who need help do not seek it from a professional due to ignorance, stigma, discrimination or lack of access to care. I decided to commemorate the Mental Health Awareness Month of May with a #31for31 #mentalhealthwithdrgbonjubolaabiri campaign. The drive featured distinguished individuals, experts and thought leaders who shared their perspectives on mental health. The goal was simple and that was to ensure that the conversations around mental health are normalized and stigma is reduced to the barest minimum. Details of our activities for the month featured a curated set of video clips of distinguished individuals speaking about their perspectives on Mental Health issues. These clips were shared on social media platforms of instagram, Facebook and Twitter with the tag #31for31 #mentalhealthwithdrgbonjubolaabiri campaign. The theme for the month was kindness. Some participants were further asked to share their experiences as to how kindness or the lack of it had impacted on their mental health. The drive had over 40 distinguished individuals from different walks of life and disciplines speaking about mental health issues either through their personal experiences of loss, forgiveness, depression , stigma, sexual and gender based violence. Additionally, their disciplines of music, Fashion, Art, Advocacy, money, travel, marriage and others were also explored. Moving forward, what has been the impact of the drive? The drive has been well received and commended as laudable.People reached out to me daily excitedly, asking who is coming up next. They want to hear the next topic of discourse and what the next individual wants to say and teach them. Many others are able to relate to these conversations and are reaching out to talk about their Mental Health. With the #31for31, I have achieved my goal of getting people talking and increasing the awareness about mental health issues, changing the health seeking behavior as quite a number of people have reached out to me via these means to seek help from professionals. I have also tackled stigma and discrimination head on as even people with mental illnesses shared their stories in a bid to give courage to others. It is my hope that as the days go by, we can consolidate on the gains made and that the momentum will be susutained and increased. Like Glenn Close says, what mental health needs is more sunlight, more candor and more unashamed conversations about persons living with mental health problems and their families’.