The Nigerian Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) on Saturday said its members would proceed on total and indefinite strike if the Federal Government failed to address their demands within 14 days. The Association stated this in a communique issued at the end of its virtual 40th Ordinary General Meeting (OGM) and Scientific Conference. The communique signed by NARD National President, Dr Sokomba Aliyu and Publicity Secretary,  Dr  Egbogu Stanley was made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Kaduna. The NARD 40th OGM was held under the theme: ‘Health inequalities and social determinants of Health in Nigeria.’ NAN reports that the virtual OGM, attended by 74 Chapters of the association from across the country, deliberated on issues affecting the nation’s health care system and welfare of its members. “NARD calls on the Federal and State governments to provide adequate personnel protective equipment such as N95 respirators, gloves etc. to all health workers. “NARD also demands immediate recall of the sacked resident doctors at Jos University Teaching Hospital and payments of their salaries.” According to the association, 26 resident doctors at the Jos University Teaching Hospital were illegally disengaged without recourse to the law governing Residency training. “The association also demands for universal implementation of the Residency Training Act in both Federal and State Teaching hospitals. “NARD demands immediate implementation of the revised hazard allowance, and payment of COVID-19 inducement allowance,” the communique said. “OGM resolves that urgent steps be taken to ensure that the fate of our members at the State Tertiary Health Institutions be improved through engagement with the various state governments and relevant stakeholders. The association enjoined the Federal Government through the National Assembly to ensure full capture of the residency training funding in the 2021 Appropriation Act. It also demanded  for payment of arrears of the consequential adjustment of the new minimum wage to it’s members at both Federal and state tertiary health institutions. The Association condemned what it called “the illegal deductions in salaries” of members by some state governments and demanded  for immediate refund.