 The Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI) has backed the position of Sultan of Sokoto led Nigeria Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), asking Muslims to observe their prayer at home on the day of Eid-el-Fitr, considering the circumstances of the COVID-19 lockdown. Sultan of Sokoto and President-General of NSCIA, Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar III had on Wednesday said that, that Eid-ul-fitr is not a compulsory religious activity (fard) and at no point should it be observed if doing so will undermine the fundamental purpose of shari’ah: security, a multifaceted concept which includes personal, community, national, environmental and health components, among others. JNI’s Fatwa Committee in its own position contained in a statement signed by JNI Secretary General, Sheikh Khalid Abubakar Aliyu, noted that the restriction will be in states where there are lockdown on Eid day, while in the states where movement is relaxed, Muslims can venture out to say their eid prayer at the eid ground. According to the statement, “Jama’atu Nasril Islam under the leadership of Alhaji (Dr.) Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar, Sultan of Sokoto and President-General JNI, in a mandate to the JNI Fatwa Committee, to come up with FATWA  regarding the year 2020 ‘Eid-el-Fitr Prayer. “The committee under the leadership of Sheikh Sheriff Ibrahim Saleh Alhusainy, after due consultations, as well as considerations of the current state Covid-19 pandemic and the serious threat it poses to life, reached the following decisions: “Eid-el-Fitr congregation in the outskirts of towns and cities should be temporarily suspended. That, the said ‘Eid-el-Fitr Prayer be observed at home with family members or alone in case there isn’t anyone with him or her, at home. “That the ‘Eid-el-Fitr Prayers is two Raka’at. Seven Takbirat to be pronounced in the first Raka’at, including the opening Takbir. Then Suratul Fatiha is read and any other Surah, preferably Suratul A’ala. While in the second Rakah, five Takbirat be pronounced. Then Suratul Fatiha is read and any other Surah, preferably Suratul Ghashiyah. “In the case of praying at home, as it may be, the Khutbah (sermon) is suspended. “All above mentioned are based on the Hadith of Anas Bn Malik in Sahih al-Bukhari and Maliki School of law decisions, in Mukhtasar, as explained by Al-Kharshi and Al-Munah al-Jalil. “However, in states where governments have reached concrete decisions to observe the ‘Eid-el-Fitr prayer, based on their medical experts advice, strictest measures of distancing, face masks and sanitizers be taken to protect worshipers. In this case neighborhood mosques can be utilized if it becomes necessary. “Ulama should fear Allah, the Most High and be matured enough in guarding their utterances and actions for the overall interest of the Deen and the Ummah. “Nigerian Muslims are therefore called upon to reflect their minds to the good virtues of the month of Ramadan and keep to its teachings all through their respective lives, as the Lord of Ramadan, is still and shall remain The Lord of other months, above all keeps the records of our actions and inactions. More so, Muslims are reminded to keep to the ordinances of the Glorious Qur’an, for the prestige of the Muslim Ummah.