 Anambra State Police Command said one person lost his life while eight suspects have been arrested in connection with the communal clashes between Umumbo and Omor in Anyamelum Local Government Area of the State. The spokesperson, Haruna Mohammed who disclosed this in a statement, said four persons sustained varying degrees of injury and were presently receiving treatment at the hospital. He said situation had been brought under control while investigations surrounding the incident had commenced. He said, “Situation is brought under control and eight suspects have been arrested so far. One person was confirmed dead and four persons sustained varying degrees of injuries and are presently receiving treatment at the hospital. “A peace meeting was held today at the Local Government Secretariat, Anaku in Anyamelum LGA. “The meeting comprises of Speaker Anambra State House of Assembly Hon. Uche Okafor, Transition Committee Chairman Barrister Benjamin Onyeabo, Representative of the Commissioner of Police DCP Chris Owolabi, Chairman Anyamelum tradional Rulers, Igwe of Omasi HRH.Igwe Benjamin Okejie,Igwe of Omor HRM. Igwe Sir, Chinedu Oranu,Igwe of Umumbu HRH Igwe Simeon Chidubem,Igwe of Ifite Ogwari HRH A I Ofuebe. “Other Stakeholders in the peace meeting includes Rev Professor Benjamin Eboh,Chief Paul Odembo(Secretary SEMA)President generals of Omo and Umumbu Communities,Representatives of the Army,DSS,NSCDC and the Divisional Police Officer of Anaku Division SP Victor Osuasa. “Meanwhile, Joint Security teams are on ground patrolling the Communities in order to ensure no further breakdown of law and order while investigation is ongoing to ascertain circumstances surrounding the incident with a view to finding lasting solution to the lingering dispute. “The Commissioner of Police CP Jonh B. Abang enjoins Ndi Anambra to always explore all the legal avenue towards addressing their grievances rather than resorting to violence which could lead to loss of lives and wanton destruction of property in the State.”