 TWO hundred and thirty nine fresh cases of the coronavirus were recorded across the country on Saturday according to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). This brings the total number of confirmed cases to 4,151. The breakdown of the  new cases are : 97-Lagos; 44-Bauchi; 29-Kano;19-Katsina;17-Borno; 7-FCT;6-Kwara; 5-Oyo; 3-Kaduna; 3-Sokoto; 2-Adamawa; 2-Kebbi; 2-Plateau; 2-Ogun;and 1-Ekiti. Seven hundred and forty five patients have been discharged so far while 128 deaths have been recorded. Among the latest deaths is Kwara’s first. The State government described the victim as a returnee from Lagos. The Chief Press Secretary to Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRasaq, Rafiu Ajakaye said yesterday that the deceased “recently arrived Kwara from Lagos with his wife and a child shortly after he suffered stroke at his Lagos base. “Before his death, the government had treated him, his wife and their child as suspected cases and samples were taken from them. The results of their samples came back positive. “Unfortunately, he died early Saturday morning even before the family got to know about their COVID status. He has been buried accordingly. Everyone involved in the burial has now had their samples taken. Because of the peculiarity of this development, the Rapid Response Team has moved in to bring all those involved into the isolation centre, including the wife and the child. “We pray to God to repose his soul. We urge citizens to see COVID-19 for what it is: a deadly and highly contagious virus that requires adherence to all safety protocols, including obeying the lockdown order. We repeat that there is no shame or blame in contracting the virus as this is a global pandemic from which no one is immune. “The government also announces four new positive cases of COVID-19 – from amongst those who sneaked into the state from the Northwestern axis of the country. “This brings to 28 the total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in Kwara State. Of these, 19 are active while nine have been discharged. All active cases are asymptomatic.” 