The National Industrial Court of Nigeria (NICN) sitting in Ibadan has adjourned sine die trial in a suit filed by a  former Commissioner of Ogun State Judicial Service Commission, Abayomi Omoyinmi challenging termination of his employment by the state government because of the Coronavirus pandemic. The Ogun State government, Governor Dapo Abiodun, Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice and the state’s House of Assembly, are first to fourth respondents in the suit marked NICN/AB/09/2019. Other matters listed for reports of settlement between Ogun State Civil Service Commission, State Universal Basic Education Board, Teaching Service Commission and different claimants were also adjourned sine die. Trials failed to hold May 5 as the court failed to sit on all cases listed for hearing at the NICN, Ibadan court rooms. The trial judge, Justice Dele Peters, had fixed May 5 for report of settlement between Ogun state government and the claimant, Omoyinmi. It was gathered that litigants in all the matters received messages May 4 informing them that the court will not sit the next day and that a new date for sitting will be communicated to them. During the proceedings March, Mrs M. Oliyide, leading O.A. Shodipo, for the government and other respondents, told Justice Peters that they were still holding discussions with the claimant on the termination dispute. The proceedings also covered other cases involving members of House of Assembly Commission, Civil Service Commission, Teaching service commission,  Local government service commis–sion  and State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB). When the judge enquired whether terms of settlement were ready on all the matters involving the state government,  including the one instituted by Omoyinmi challenging the termination of his appointment, Oliyide said talks were ongoing and that the defendants needed more time. She promised that by the next adjournment, all matters would have been resolved. He granted the defence’s request and adjourned till May 5, for  final report of settlement in all pending matters. Omoyinmi, in a Motion on Notice brought pursuant to Order 22 of the NICN  Civil Procedure Rules in Suit no: NICN/AB/09/2019  stated that he was appointed a member of the Commission through a letter by former Governor Ibikunle Amosun February 2012, for a five-year tenure as stipulated in the Constitution and same renewed by another letter dated January 30, 2018 pursuant to Section 199 (1) (C) of same law and to end January 2023. He said the appointment was terminated by the state government without following due process and contrary to the provisions of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, as amended. Omoyinmi had therefore prayed the court for two orders: An order setting aside the appointments, constitution and inauguration of the new members performed by the governor and State House of Assembly, and second and fourth respondents respectively, in Suit no NICN/AB/09/2019, during pendency of the application for Interlocutary Injunction before the court; He is also asking the court for  an order of Interlocutory Injunction restraining Ogun State Government and Governor Abiodun appointees inaugurated on November 4 as members of OSJSC from performing the functions and duties of the Commission pending the hearing and determination of the Originating Summons and Motion for Interlocutory Injunction filed August 8. He is also asking the court for an order directing the defendants to maintain status quo in respect of the Chairman and members of the Ogun State Judicial Service Commission pending the determination of the suit. In his affidavit in support of the motion, the claimant averred that he was aware that despite service of the Originating Summons and application for Interlocutory injunction, the defendants have not filed any counter-affidavit. Omoyinmi averred that he heard through the media on October 31, that despite pendency of the suit, the second defendant announced the appointment of new members for the commission.