Governments at the three tier levels have been urged to urgently provide adequate support for the judiciary and lawyers as they face an impending “tsunami of disputes and gridlock” caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. The Deputy Vice Chancellor, Academic, Research, Innovation and Strategic Partnerships (ARISP) of Afe Babalola University, Ado Ekiti, Professor Damilola S. Olawuyi, made the plea during an online workshop on Friday. The virtual workshop was organized by the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) Ikere-Ekiti Branch, in partnership with the Ekiti State Ministry of Justice, and the ILA. The theme was “Legal Practice Post Covid-19: Prospects, Challenges and The Way Forward” and featured two other eminent panelists, the Attorney General and Commissioner of Justice of Ekiti and Edo States, Wale Fapounda and Professor Yinka Omorogbe respectively. The session was chaired by the Chairman of the Branch, Mrs Oludayo Olorunfemi. Olawuyi, who is a professor of Environmental Law and Vice Chairman of the International Law Association (ILA) noted, “history tells us that in times of global catastrophe and economic distress, disputes and litigation will significantly increase, ranging from employment cases, to breach of contract, bankruptcy, insurance claims, and supply chain disruptions amongst others. “The judiciary, as well as lawyers, should be provided adequate support so that they can effectively handle the impending tsunami of disputes and not be overwhelmed. “In addition to technological, digitalisation, financial and infrastructure needs, a number of disaster response mechanisms will be need to put in place at all levels to avoid institutional gridlock.” Olawuyi also called on universities to develop tailored programmes to train and prepare law students for the emerging legal order post-COVID 19. While discussing some of the ongoing initiatives of the Ekiti State Government in this area, Fapounda encouraged all lawyers to embrace the opportunities for technological innovation provided by the pandemic. According to him, the Ekiti State Ministry of Justice will continue to work with all NBA branches in the state to assess areas of intervention and support. In her remarks, Prof. Omorogbe noted that the pandemic is already changing the face of the legal profession and justice delivery in Nigeria. According to her, legal practice post-COVID-19 will have to be innovative, technology-driven and receptive to fresh ideas. While closing the session, Mrs. Olorunfemi appreciated the exceptional leadership roles of the Ekiti State Ministry of Justice in providing ongoing support, training and motivation for young lawyers in the state.