Babcock University, Ilishan-Remo, Ogun State has postponed its second semester examination after many students were unable to take their papers on Monday and Tuesday. A statement by the institution’s Registrar, Prof. Jonathan Nwosu, said the examination was postponed till May 18 because of technical hitches despite the availability of requisite facilities. The statement reads: “Babcock University unfortunately wishes to inform you all that the conduct of the second semester examinations is hereby deferred. “This is due to extraneous technical hitches beyond the control of the university.  Be informed that the university has sophisticated computer hardware resources, specifically dedicated, to accommodate all that is needed for this exercise.  We have functional 32-core processor blade server, 512 GB RAM, sufficient SSD storage and other necessary accessories capable of handling resources required to conduct the examinations.  However, the good news is that our on-ground technical team and foreign consultants have almost finished sorting out the much regretted situation.” The Nation gathered from parents and students of the university that their children had experienced difficulties taking the examination after logging on to the portal at the scheduled times on Monday and Tuesday. When The Nation contacted the Director of Public Relations, Dr. Joshua Suleiman, on Monday, he said there were technical hitches that would be resolved by Tuesday (yesterday).  However, some students scheduled to write their papers on Tuesday morning could not also take the examination. “I could not log in. None of my classmates logged in. We sent a text to our coordinator. Our course advisor later sent a text that the exam had been postponed,” one of the affected students said. According to the registrar, a revised timetable for the rescheduled examination would be released on May 15 ahead of May 18. He, however, said that those students who successfully had their examination on Tuesday would not have to repeat it. “Please be informed that those who have successfully completed the 8am-10am examination of today, Tuesday, May 12, shall not be allowed to retake the examinations, as they shall be disabled, while those who could not successfully complete theirs are guaranteed of another opportunity,” he said.