Was it compassion or emotion that drew tears from Governor Ben Ayade as he talked about the poor in Cross River State last week? If it was compassion, we celebrate him as a leader. But if he was merely emotional, then we can be sure, he would get over it, so the cruelty against the poor will go on. Perhaps, we should give Ayade the benefit of doubt for he has set up a committee to lift the burden of taxation on the backs of the poor. If Governor Ayade truly has compassion for the poor in his state, he should study the provisions of Chapter II of the 1999 constitution (as amended) to grasp the full standards of a compassionate government. Any leader who abides by those provisions on the “fundamental objectives and directive principles of state policy” qualifies as a compassionate leader. But what is the difference between compassion and emotion? According to Advanced English Dictionary-online, the word compassion means: “the humane quality of understanding the sufferings of others and wanting to do something about it.” On the other hand, the same dictionary defines emotion as: “any strong feeling.” Such strong feeling can make one to cry or laugh. For instance, watching a single movie can elicit the two divergent feelings, as the scenes unfold, and at the end of it, the spectator would relapse to his usual self and engage in other things. Again, a good actor can also exhibit the two divergent emotions while portraying a character. So, in a single movie, a character could laugh or cry, as part of the act; and of course that has nothing to do with the real feeling of the actor. So, was Governor Ben Ayade acting a script, to impress the viewers? If we are to believe him, Ayade, is for real. He said: “I am not wired for this insensitivity to a weaker person. I never knew that five years into office as governor, I will still find someone living in a thatched house in Cross River”. Well, while living in a thatched house could be a metaphor for poverty, there are millions living in houses covered by corrugated iron sheets, who are as poor as the famous church rats. According to the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), on poverty and inequality, from September 2018 to October 2019, about 40% of Nigerians lived below its poverty line of $1 dollar per day. That approximated to about 82.9 million Nigerians. With the global pandemic, otherwise known as COVID-19, making a mincemeat of the poor in our society, the figure of the poor in our country would have gone a notch higher in 2020. While the poor would continue to be amongst us, Ayade, is saying they should not be Cross Riverians. But if we are to rely on the available statistics, there are still many Cross Riverians caught in the web of poverty despite the strides of the professor turned politician. According to a media report, there are about 230,000 households who are beneficiaries of the monthly Conditional Cash Transfer of N5,000, to the poorest of the poor, in 2019. The report says that Bolinwo Ofegobi, the Cross River State Coordinator of Youth Employment and Social Support Operations, YESSO is working to capture at least one million poor beneficiaries of the programme in the state before the end of 2020. So, Governor Ayade should be distressed, that after five years on the saddle, the number of the poor, in his state, is still very high. But of course, Cross River is not amongst the poorest of the poor in the index of the poorest states in Nigeria. The states in the northwest and the northeast bears the medals for that unenviable positions. According to the Nigerian Living Standards Survey (NLSS) released by NBS, nine of 10 poorest states are in the northern part of Nigeria. Some of the indices used to measure the poverty index include access to education, health and basic services, employment, assets and income. These wide ranging socio-economic factors, are tested against the sustainable development indicators, to determine the living standards and the level of poverty in the country. As stated in the report by the Cross River State agency and corroborated by the NBS report, the majority of the poor are in the rural areas of the states. Of note, Ofogebi noted that in trying to garner data of the most vulnerable in the rural communities, some of the leaders insisted that their names must be included in the lists before the officials are allowed to garner the data. Of course, that should be a lesson for the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, which generated the controversial lists for the Controversial Cash Transfers in states across the country. For Governor Ayade, giving a tax rebate is one sure way to alleviate poverty in his state. No doubt, that measure is commendable, more so, for the reasons we all know; that the entrepreneur in Nigeria, personally provides most of the essential services to stay in business. These include generating electric power, borehole, private transportation, and even security. That is why many small scale business are always struggling, and when the burden of taxation is added, then, it is a matter of time before the business dies. So, we commend Governor Ayade to other state governors. The Kingdom of Dubai, one of the kingdoms that make up the United Arab Emirates, is one country that practices no taxation, as a state policy, to stimulate businesses. That has paid off handsomely, as the country is the preferred destination for many businesses. So, taxation can be used both as an incentive and a disincentive to stimulate trade and businesses. Of course, taxation is not bad in itself, but tax holidays can be used to buoy up new businesses. While commending Ayade, for his concern for the small scale businesses, we urge him to back his plans with laws where necessary to entrench it. If he has the compassion, he should ensure that governance, in Cross River State, is formulated in accordance the provisions of Chapter II of the 1999 constitution (as amended). A fervent practice of the provisions of the said Chapter II, would aid the socio-economic development of his state, nay Nigeria. Section 14(1), in Chapter II, provides: “The Federal Republic of Nigeria shall be a state based on the principles of democracy and social justice.” Sub-section 2, further provides: “the security and welfare of the people shall be the primary purpose of government.” Perhaps, to govern compassionately, should be the lessons from a Governor’s cry on television. 