The Students’ Union President of Petroleum Training Institute (PTI), Comrade Oghenemaro Oyeye, gives reason why undergraduates nationwide should benefit from various relief packages being distributed by Federal Government to Nigerias to cushion the effect of the lockdown in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. He speaks with UGOCHUKWU UCHE SOSTHENES.  How would you describe government’s directive to lock down schools? That order has a psychological effect on our students in PTI given the fact that all of a sudden, we were asked to vacate in the middle of an examination. Donations have been coming from international donors as well as philanthropists in Nigeria. Do you think Nigerian students deserve some preference? Nigerian students should be considered especially in the disbursement of relief materials. This is because most students are at home with their parents, majority of who are not going to work. When the lockdown is eventually lifted and academic activities resume, it will be difficult for our parents to raise funds with which they will send their children or wards back to school. What is your advice for Nigerian students? Nigerian students should use this stay home period to study, pray, and follow all the directives given by the government in order to contain the spread of COVID-19. I strongly believe that every student will be in sound health, more academically sound and will perform better if only they heed government’s instructions. What is your message for governments and management of the various tertiary institutions in Nigeria? Management of our tertiary institutes should be considerate in making decisions, encouraging their workers and providing them with enabling environment so both students and staff alike can function properly. I also urge the governments to do her best in fostering a means to this effect. Those who are in charge of intervention funds should not see it as means of enriching their pockets while people are suffering. Rather, they should ensure such funds are properly used. The academic system in Nigeria needs to be digitalised, so students can take lectures and even sit for their examination online. Already PTI is embarking on some digitisation projects. The Federal Ministry of Education should please consider this as a very serious issue.