Notwithstanding the lethality of COVID-19 and its ungraciousness toward black people, there comes a deranged sense of normalcy to know that, despite these abnormal times, the traditional ways of killing black men are still being practiced in those locales where such ways were long-ago perfected. On February 21, two, perhaps three, white men jumped in cars to chase down 25 year old Ahmaud Arbery. He lived in the neighborhood and jogged it almost daily as was his citizen’s right. One of the white men shot the weaponless young man dead in the middle of the street in broad daylight. Their reasoning for his demise was that he looked like a thief. You have read about Trayvon Martin, Michael Brown and Eric Garner, three black males killed because dominant society and its appointed guardians deemed them criminal based on the quantity of melanin in their skin. Long before these now deceased young men were born, black men had been chased and murdered for the same reason. The names of many will never be well known; but every sentient African American feels the crimes done unto these men much like an amputee has the phantom sensation of a missing limb. These men were hung, shot, butchered and brutalized in the solitude of their blackness. Their obscured deaths are our living angst and agony. Because of how these men died, we remain wounded in ways that cannot be healed except by a remedy that stands unattainable as long as such bleak deaths continue. The corpses of many black men lie forgotten in the swamps and countryside of the state of Georgia. For years, a solitary black man travelling on foot along a Georgia road was a homicide in prospect. Many innocent black men were killed in these situations. Law enforcement knew their murderers but did nothing except disregard the capital crime just committed. If the police took any action, it was to instruct the killers how better to commit such murders without leaving tell-tale evidence of the evil they had done. To take a life was prohibited by the law books parked on inanimate library shelves. But the slaughter of a black man was permitted by the informal law that actually ruled the land and defined everyday life. A black man could be murdered simply because he was in the wrong place at the wrong time without any possible means of escaping the lethal injustice set to descend upon him. He was killed for no reason which, in America’s strange context, is the most defensible reason of all; thus, he was not considered a victim of anything untoward. He had brought his pitiful demise upon himself simply by being himself. It was not so much that he was killed for being in the wrong place at the wrong time. The greater truth was that being a black man meant he was always intruding into the wrong place at the wrong time. His very existence was an infraction, his sense of freedom a serious felony and any attempt by him to act as an equal member of society was an act of high treason. Thus, his roadside execution would be but a form of natural justice, harsh, even primordial, but well deserved. The years have passed but the times have not so utterly changed. In this sense, 2020 is as it was in 1920 which was much like 1820. The morality of race remains as it has long been. A lone black man remains an endangered animal. A group of white men believe they have the license to hunt him down and extinguish his life much like a farmer or rancher protecting his livestock from a wild dog. The racial history of America is a distorted one. Over the span of centuries, from the inception of the American nation to the present, white society has stolen much from the black population. From centuries of unpaid labor, to the slaughter of loved ones, to the kidnapping of children, there was nothing that could be taken that was not stolen. Yet the core of the American racial myth is to consider the black man the most heinous of criminals notwithstanding the unprovoked evil done to him. According to the myth, the black man does wrong because he is a wrong. Thus, any wrong done him is completely right and proper. This is one of the greatest propaganda scams and human tragedies in modern history. This is the history which swirled about Arbery as he jogged his neighborhood. No one knows exactly what coursed through Arbery’s mind as he was harassed then shot on that residential street in southeastern Georgia. But the awful racial history of where he lived, the thought of being the latest of a long string of black victims of white hate in the Deep South, must have carved a deep channel through his thoughts as he ran toward the encounter that would become his death. The specter of “the fateful encounter” casts a shadow over the life of every black man.  Each one hopes to be sufficiently fortunate to avoid the fateful encounter because it is rare that a black man escapes such a meeting unscathed. However, it seems that white racists love killing black men more than we hate dying. The murder of Arbery would have been officially recorded as a noncriminal incident but for modern technology and the hubris of the perpetrators. Seeing themselves as always faultless when confronting blackness, they videoed the encounter. They would have gotten away with the crime but for a local white attorney who leaked the video. Showing the racial derangement permeating that particular community, the attorney has ties to the assailants and even counseled them briefly on this case. He felt releasing the terrible video might vindicate the white men. His antics boomeranged. The video would serve to indict them, resurrecting a case that would have faded away but for his slew-footed intervention. So filled with racial prejudice, even this lawyer could not see the obvious injustice that had been done. A prejudiced eye is always a lying one. Ironically, if not for that local attorney’s counterproductive actions, Arbery would have been just another wayward pickaninny killed in small town Georgia. His assailants would have remained free to swagger into their local bar to regale their admiring friends how they tracked down and shot the runaway black man just like their predecessors regularly did in days of yore. The local police had already given the killers a stay-out-of-jail pass. More than 70 days had elapsed and the McMichael father and son tandem were not charged or even arrested. The police automatically believed their fictional tale of self-defense. But they were the aggressors. What they did was the opposite of self-defense. They went on attack. Twice they harassed the unarmed jogger. On the third attempt, the younger killer emerged from the car with shotgun in hand to stand in the jogger’s path. It was evident that Arbery held no weapon; still, they confronted him with their firearms. Yet, the cursory police investigation concluded Arbery had assaulted them to the point where they fell in dire fear of their lives; this justified shooting him at point blank range. In the eyes of local law enforcement, the white armed assailant, with his finger at the quick and on the trigger, was the hapless victim who somehow manage to escape with his life. The unarmed black jogger at the wrong end of a shotgun was deemed the villain who, for no discernible reason, decided to make a deadly lunge at an armed white man. All Arbery did was apparently try to defend himself. But a black man is rarely permitted that option. Arbery broke a cardinal tenet of the racial code. He may have thought he was simply trying to defend himself from two madmen. In doing so, he unwittingly was attacking an entire system that his two attackers and several million wicked men like them had taken centuries to build. In this world, a black man exercising self-defense is the existential danger. Thus, Arbery was killed because of this inexcusable violation. The local police refused to criminally charge the two killers despite the obvious lies they told to squirm away from evil thing they did. They said Arbery broke into a house. This was blatantly untrue.  At some point before he knew they were pursuing him, Arbery entered the open construction site of an unfinished house. He walked about the site briefly and took nothing before resuming his jog. Technically, this might be considered trespass. However, it is common practice in the South for people to walk about such sites. No one is arrested let alone summarily executed for this any more than a city dweller is subject to capital punishment for jaywalking. The McMichael duo further claimed Arbery resembled a suspect in a recent flurry of neighborhood residential break-ins. However, police records reveal no such spike in break-ins. The only record of any robbery in the area was of an early January call to the police from the McMicheals that a gun had been stolen from one of their vehicles. This was roughly seven weeks before they shot Arbery. As such, the missing gun seems like an isolated incident not a link in a growing chain. The neighborhood was not being terrorized or overrun by some burglar.  The McMichaels were angry because a firearm had gone missing. The weapon might have been inadvertently misplaced by one of them instead of being stolen by a stranger. This possibility did not matter to them. In the space they occupy, when something goes wrong, the nature reflex is to blame a black man. Either blame the nearest one or the one who seems to be violating the racial code. Arbery seemed to fit the bill on both counts. Apparently, the father had a mean eye toward Arbery. The elder McMichael was a retired police officer. While still in active service, McMichael was involved in arresting Arbery in 2014. Arbery, then a high schooler, was charged with bringing a weapon to school. He was placed on five year probation. In 2018, Arbery had a minor shoplifting charge. He had made mistakes, but Arbery was not a serious or habitual criminal. Filled with the animus that prejudice triggers, McMichael apparently could not tolerate the notion of this same young black man being allowed to run at liberty through the streets of the neighborhood. McMichael appointed himself guardian of the neighborhood against the perceived black menace. That Arbery resided in the same area probably fueled McMicheal’s resentment. As they pursued the black jogger and the situation escalated, McMichael and son would promote themselves from merely being neighborhood guardians to become judges and executioners of another human being. The last refuge sought by the McMichael team was to claim they were effectuating a citizen’s arrest. However, as a former law enforcement officer, the elder man well knew that citizen’s arrest can only be made upon witnessing the commission of a crime and should never involve deadly force. McMichael did not see Arbery steal even a blade of grass. At most, he witnessed a technical trespass on at residential construction site which belonged to another person. Under no interpretation of the law was McMichael empowered to make an arrest much less resort to deadly force under these facts. In the end, this was but the latest in a string of tragedies that stretch far back into the past and that will likely extend well into the future. American society is built on a seemingly inexhaustible deposit of racial injustice and hatred. This is what killed the young man. Because black people protested, legal authorities in Georgia reluctantly were forced to act differently than they would have. I guess this is a sign of incremental progress. Had a black man shot a white man in similar circumstances, the black man would have been immediately jailed if not killed on the spot for his effrontery. The deeper truth is that no sane black man would even contemplate doing to a white man what the McMichaels did to Arbery. If in his own home, a black man witnesses a white burglar that black man must still wisely consider his options. If he calls the police and they arrive, they will reflexively assume he is the criminal and arrest, if not shoot, the innocent homeowner. If he takes the situation into his own hands, he will be arrested no matter how aggressive or strongly armed the criminal might have been. He has no right to kill a white man no matter the provocation. For a black man to defend himself against interracial violence is to put himself at greater risk of official violence against him. This is the American paradox of self-defense and the black man. That the McMichaels have been charged with murder is a positive step. Hopefully, justice will be allowed its fullest definition. But even this rarity will not bring the young Arbery back. Yet, it may deter other such tragedies. However, do not be surprised if these men get off with a much lighter sentence than what is due. The law enforcement system and the white people who run will largely sympathize with the shooters. Racism permeates every American institution from the public health system to the court system. Black men will continue to die more than they should either by the scourge of mindless virus or by the intentions a hateful society. And so history replays itself — racists love seeing us die more than we love seeing ourselves live.  08060340825 sms only    