Students of Accounting Technicians Scheme of West Africa (ATSWA), an affiliate of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN), University of Calabar (UNICAL) Chapter, have identified various approaches the Federal Government could adopt to mitigate the adverse effects of COVID-19 pandemic on the economy. They speak with STANLEY UCHEGBU  The COVID-19 is, no doubt, a source of worry globally. Since its outbreak in Wuhan China in December, it has attracted various intervention strategies from the government at various levels as well as national and international organisations. In Nigeria, the Federal Government has been  taking necessary steps towards containing the virus, with states imposing measures such as partial to total lockdown, distribution of palliatives, especially to the vulnerable, a development that has since slowed down economic activities in the country. Interestingly, students of Accounting of the University of Calabar (UNICAL) who are also pursuing their professional ambition to become members of Associate Accounting Technicians Scheme of West Africa (AATWA) have waded into the matter. They believe the various lockdown directives across states have forced many public and private organisations to scale down their operations, which would negatively affect their profitability. Against this backdrop, they believe organisations would be affected as regards preparing a robust financial statement vis-a-vis the need to prevent a significant fall in profit. This scenario is expected to reduce income and revenue earnings, increase the level of unemployment, reduce productivity as well as propel reduction in the level of aggregate expenditure in these organisations and the economy at large. Ghenzini Edet, a graduate of Economics and an ATS student, suggested that the government could offer financial support to the informal sector to cushion the effect of the pandemic. He said: “Aside the measures taken so far, more is expected from the Federal Government among which are the introduction of financial stimulus packages, such as unconditional cash transfers, financial grants and low interest loans to off the book traders operating in the informal sector of the economy in order to aid their sustenance and effectiveness in carrying out business activities.” Edet said the government through the apex bank should reduce its national monetary policy rate and the cash reserve ratio below the current 13.5 per cent and 27.5 per cent respectively, in order to improve commercial banks’ loans to various individuals and organisation willing to invest as a result of the low cost of capital and higher expected returns. According to him, this will attract foreign investors to take advantage of the low interest rate and a profitable economic environment to invest through foreign direct investment and portfolio investment, thereby curbing the possibility of a total collapse of the economy. Mowan Livinus, who is in second year, noted that Nigeria was gradually becoming a COVID-19 hotbed, adding that its economy could be one of the hardest hit, if more measures were not taken. Livinus advised the government to focus on immediate priorities and implement reforms to boost resilience beyond the crisis. Beyond international travel restrictions and stimulus for businesses, more must be done to protect vulnerable households in addition to providing incentives and safety nets to the most-affected through targeted tax incentives, social transfers, and regulatory support. “The Federal Government and the Central Bank of Nigeria can expand loans to states to enable them pay workers and support the healthcare sector,” Livinus began. He continued: “The government at various levels should reduce the cost of governance by changing its ways in the incurring of administrative costs and prioritising the most effective development programmes. This will free up more money for social and infrastructural spending and improve its resilience. “Similarly, reducing the misuse of public finances through commitment to transparency, opening up budgets, and strengthening anti-corruption institutions should be a priority during and post COVID-19.” Livinus also admonished policymakers to lessen the effects of the impending social and economic crises caused by the pandemic and prepare Nigeria for a better future. Ogar Anthony, a 300-Level undergraduate, recalled that the nation economy was standing on one leg before the outbreak of the pandemic. “Before the pandemic, the Nigerian government had been grappling with weak recovery from 2014 oil price shock, with GDP growth tapering around 2.3per cent in 2019, which led to a decline in revenue associated with falling prices. ‘’Due to the pandemic, Nigeria’s economy across sectors has declined in growth in recent times. These constraints have aggravated the economic impact of the COVID-19 outbreak, making it more difficult for the government to weather the crisis.” Anthony called on government to come up with policies geared at limiting the number of passengers at land, sea and air, and provide passengers with body gears, face mask, and hand gloves. Another 200-Level student Okon Bassey, suggested that government has a crucial role to play. They could loan out money through the CBN to individuals, SME’s and industries that are most affected with a low interest rate. This, he said, would help keep the economy afloat. According to Bassey, the manufacturing and pharmaceutical sectors should be encouraged to increase local production and reduce their reliance on foreign exchange for import. He said the government should also implement fiscal policy which involves the use of taxation and government expenditure to regulate economic activity. In addition, Bassey said the level of government expenditure should increase, as well as tax reliefs and concessions to local industries to stimulate domestic production. Rekpene Etta, who is in its second year, told CAMPUSLIFE that the pandemic posesses a great threat to the economy as Nigeria gradually witnesses a reduction in her GDP through its components, consumption, investment, government spending and net exports. Therefore, preventive measures to curtail the possible occurrence of recession should be the government priorities, he advised. Etta stated that the application of monetary and fiscal policies tools, adjustment of cash reserve ratio, provision of additional liquidity in the foreign exchange market, maintenance of exchange rate stability and among others, should be adopted to mitigate the adverse effect of the pandemic on the nation’s economy. To Nwaji Fredrick, another second year undergraduate, the government should implement trade diversification, and explore other sectors that can yield equivalent if not greater revenue to the one realised from oil sector. He admonished the government to dust up agricultural sector and produce raw materials among others at their most comparative cost advantage for a favourable balance of trade. Fredrick implored the government to partner with some accounting professional bodies like ICAN to do a critical review on the nation’s budget plans, determine its feasibility with quicker gestation period. In his view, Kevin Ebri, a third year student, said Federal Government’s sourcing   funds from the World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF), might not single-handedly revive the economy or be the best option as the country is currently hugely indebted internally and externally. According to Ebri, some fiscal measures that can be adopted by the government include tax reliefs, exemptions and allowances, downward review of interest rates, debt and interest moratoriums on Federal Government and CBN-Funded loans. Ebri noted that for the country to recover from the shock of the fall in oil price, the Federal Government should consider a review of the oil price and production benchmark.  All these measures, if implemented, could go a long way to mitigate the effect of the pandemic on the economy, Ebri submitted. Rekpene Etta, an ATS student, recommended four approaches. They include: application of fiscal policy tools; lowering interest rate; adjustment of cash reserve ratio; and provision of additional liquidity in the foreign exchange market. On the application of fiscal tools, Etta said the government in the quest to curb the fall in household consumption, should reduce tax rate in order to enable consumers have more disposable income, or if possible, the tax authorities like FIRS and SBIRS should waive the payment of personal income tax for a period of three months which is one quarter, while government cuts down on nonessential expenditure. This, he said, will be a starting point to strengthening the nation’s GDP. 