 In a bid to avert further fatalities, Boko Haram and Islamic State of West African Province (ISWAP) fighters have dropped off their families as troops intensify onslaught against the insurgents, it was learnt. According to the Armed Forces of Nigeria, 72 family members of the insurgents, including 33 women and 39 children were found at the entrance of Ngala town in Ngala Local Government Area of Borno State. The Coordinator Defence Media Operations, Major General John Enenche, said the women and children are currently in the custody of troops. According to him, another batch of 11 ISWAP fighters has also surrendered to the troops of Operation Lafiya Dole in Adamawa State, adding that the repentant terrorists are undergoing profiling. He noted that “the number of surrendered BHT/ISWAP fighters is an indication of the heat of our operational activities on the terrorists due to the renewed impetus in the theatre to end the criminality. “There are indications that more terrorists are willing to surrender.” He also hinted that “so far, 280 clients have successfully undergone the programme and reintegrated into the society, 25 of this number were repatriated to Niger Republic. Presently, 603 clients are due to pass out in June 2020. “Other fighters are hereby encouraged to come out of the bush/hideouts to surrender. “The military High Command is using this medium to request parents, traditional rulers, community, opinion and religious leaders to urge their wards and children not to succumb to inducements by the BHT/ISWAP for recruitment into their fold.”  Eneche revealed further that “on 11 May, 2020, eleven ISWAP fighters surrendered to troops of Operation LAFIYA DOLE in Adamawa State. The repentant insurgents are being profiled for further action.“ “This number of surrendered BHT/ISWAP fighters is an indication of the heat of our operational activities on the terrorists due to the renewed impetus in the theatre to end the criminality. “There are indications that more terrorists are willing to surrender. One of such move was the dropping off of 72 family members of BHTs/ISWAP at the entrance of Ngala town in Ngala Local Government Area of Borno State on 10 May, 2020 around 8.30pm, comprising 33 women and 39 children. “All of them are in custody of troops for further action. “It would be recalled that the De-radicalization, Rehabilitation and Reintegration programme for ex-fighters under Operation SAFE CORRIDOR has recorded tremendous success.” He continued: ”So far, 280 clients have successfully undergone the programme and reintegrated into the society. Twenty-five of this number was repatriated to Niger Republic. “Presently, 603 clients are due to pass out in June 2020. Other fighters are hereby encouraged to come out of the bush/hideouts to surrender.”