 LAGOS State government on Thursday discharged 48 coronavirus patients from its isolation centres after treatment, to raise the number of those successfully managed to 406. Those discharged include 32 male and 16 female – all of them Nigerians. They were treated at the Yaba, Lekki, Onikan and Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) isolation facilities to reunite with the society. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu said: “We will continue to celebrate and acknowledge our wins, as well as reflect on our losses. These will help us stay on course, prevent us from being distracted, help us stay focused as we face this pandemic head on.” He added: “Though we have been recording recovered patients, we need to also be careful, remain guarded, and show commitment and cooperation with authorities as we are all in this together. Our wins are your wins, our losses, your losses.” As part of the losses, the state also on Thursday recorded two more deaths. Commissioner for Health Prof. Akin Abayomi, who made this known on his Twitter account, did not provide additional information on the age, sex, nationality and medical history of the deceased. “Lagos recorded two more #COVID-19 related deaths, bringing total deaths associated to COVID-19 in Lagos to 33,” he tweeted. The commissioner recalled that the state on Wednesday recorded 82 new cases which brought the number of confirmed cases to 1,324. The Commissioner added that 10 people associated with the seat ofr government, the Lagos State House in Marina, tested positive for the COVID-19 pandemic. He explained that Governor. Sanwo-Olu and his wife had consistently tested negative for COVID-19, following three consecutive tests conducted on them recently. Abayomi advised residents to continue to embrace the Mask-Up Lagos Initiative and observe all precautionary measures such as physical distancing, hand washing and other personal hygiene to contain the spread of the virus. “All directives on easing lockdown in Lagos State remain in force,” he said. Abayomi said that collective responsibility was required to stop the spread of COVID-19 in the state and Nigeria.