Some auto plants will resume production this week in the United States and United Kingdom. Mchigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer has said the state’s factories can reopen on today, removing one of the last major obstacles to North American automakers bringing thousands of laid-off employees back to work amid the coronavirus pandemic. While reopening the manufacturing sector, Whitmer also extended her state’s stay-at-home order by about two weeks to May 28, citing a desire to avoid a second wave of COVID-19, the respiratory illness caused by the novel coronavirus. “We’re not out of the woods yet, but this is an important step forward. As we continue to phase in sectors of our economy, I will keep working around the clock to ensure our businesses adopt best practices to protect workers,” Whitmer said in a statement. General Motors and Fiat Chrysler Automobiles said they were targeting resuming vehicle production in North America on May 18, but suppliers would need time to prepare ahead for that date. Japanese car maker Toyota has also confirmed it will resume production at its North Wales engine plant. However, Toyota said that it other UK plant, at Burnaston in Derbyshire, will remain closed with a restart date to be announced in the coming weeks. Staff at the Deeside plant will return to work today to undergo several days of safety induction, with a view to resuming production  on Wednesday. It has also confirmed that its plant in Sakaraya, Turkey will also open this week. Toyota said that extensive health and safety protocols have been implemented at both plants. Production at the Deeside plant was suspended on March 18, due to the coronavirus. Outside of Airbus in Broughton, it is one of the biggest private sector employers in North Wales, with a workforce of 600. In a statement, Toyota said: “The decision to restart these two production operations is based on various considerations, but fundamental has been the ability to ensure the sites’ safety by implementing thorough and detailed hygiene and social distancing recommendations.” Toyota has already reopened plants in France and Poland.