 Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, was excited Thursday following compliance to his directive on 24-hour curfew in Port Harcourt capital city as one of the measures to check the spread of the Coronavirus pandemic in the state. But the governor came hard on the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Operations) for attempting to sabotage the complete lockdown of the city. Investigations revealed that the bustling capital city comprising Port Harcourt and Obio-Akpor local government areas was historically quiet as residents chose to obey Wike’s directive. All the major roads, markets, shops, filling stations were deserted with security operatives mounting checkpoints at strategic places to enforce the directive. Only few vehicles on essential duties were seen plying the roads while a few passers-by were stopped and questioned by security operatives to determine their missions. Children, however, seized the opportunity to play football on some major roads and streets. It was, however, gathered that at the Elekahia Isolation Centre, over 200 persons were arrested and over 20 vehicles impounded by different teams enforcing the lockdown. Wike, who monitored compliance, in a statement signed by his Special Assistant on Electronic Media, Simeon Nwakaudu, commended Rivers people for complying with the lockdown directive saying it was 95 per cent. The governor arrested some very important persons (VIPS), who were not on essential duties, but were moving around with their police escorts, but he allowed a pregnant woman who violated the lockdown order, on compassionate grounds. He, however, regretted that the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Rivers State Police Command DCP, Adamu Abubakar allegedly sabotaged the lockdown by issuing illegal letters to companies. He said the approvals issued by the police or any other authorities, outside the office of the governor remained illegal. He said: “I want to commend Rivers people for the level of support they have shown. The level of compliance is quite satisfactory. It is more than 95 percent within the two Local Government Areas.” “It is unfortunate to see the level of sabotage that we get from the police. Particularly, the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Operations, Rivers State Police Command. “The Deputy Commissioner of Police will sign approvals for companies because he wants to collect money. I am the Governor of this state and there cannot be two governors. “The Deputy Commissioner of Police has no powers to issue approvals when the State Government has locked down the state. After the State Security Council met and agreed on the lockdown, the Deputy Commissioner of Police went ahead to issue illegal letters to companies to operate. I have never seen that in my life. “Look at what is happening in other parts of the country, the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Operations wants us to suffer” Wike said that the State Security Council whold an emergency meeting on the illegal activities of the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Operations. He said: “I have called for an emergency security Council meeting by 3pm today. This is a complete sabotage by the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Operations), Rivers State Police Command. We will deal with that accordingly. “I however, thank the Army, the Navy and others on what they are doing to enforce the lockdown. “For the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Operations) to sabotage us, that will not be accepted. I arrested those people and he had the guts to tell them to release those I arrested on the road because he is collecting money from companies. That is unacceptable. ” The governor said persons arrested for violating the lockdown would be prosecuted by the government and assured the people that the restriction would be restricted in due course. He said: “All these violators must be prosecuted at the mobile court set for this purpose. What we are doing is not for any particular individual, it is for the interest of the state. “Our people are suffering, I agree. But this is something we must do. When we examine the level of compliance and it is reasonable, of course, we will unlock the two Local Government Areas. “It is not in our own interest that people shouldn’t come out or go to the markets. But we are talking about lives and how to protect our people. “The defaulters will be tried by the Mobile Courts and I have told the Attorney General, all the impounded vehicles must be auctioned. By tomorrow, the Honourable Attorney General would have advertised those vehicles and we will auction them. “Some people don’t believe that Coronavirus is in existence. Until you make them understand that we are serious, they will not believe it. We will auction the impounded vehicles “Those arrested will face the wrath of the law. Nobody is above the law. We will not allow anyone to sabotage our efforts to protect our people.”