President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday consulted further on plans by the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) Contact Group, to seek debt relief from international financial bodies. It would be recalled that President Buhari, on Monday, during a virtual summit by leaders of the NAM member nations, had called on international financial organisations to assist developing nations to cushion the harsh effects of the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) global outbreak through various interventions, including outright debt cancellation. The President took further steps in line with this suggestion on Thursday when he held a telephone conversation with the Pakistani Prime Minister, Mr. Imran Khan. A brief statement issued by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, which announced the discussion, also disclosed that the it centered around the earlier agreement to seek debt relief by NAM member nations. “President Muhammadu Buhari and the Prime Minister of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, His Excellency, Mr. Imran Khan, Thursday afternoon had a phone conversation on the Global Initiative on Debt Relief canvassed by leaders of the Non-Aligned Movement Contact Group. “During an online summit held on Monday, leaders of the 120-nation organization, the largest after the United Nations, had agreed that a debt relief campaign be launched for developing countries to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic and unprecedented health and socioeconomic challenges facing most of them,” the statement said. It would be recalled that President Buhari, during the virtual summit, had said national, regional and global strategies would be required to tackle the pandemic, which, he said, had ravaged humanity and caused unprecedented devastation to the well-being of people, their livelihoods, and global economy. “The theme of this extra-ordinary Summit ‘United Against COVID-19 Pandemic,’ aptly reflects the importance for a proactive approach and the need for multilateral cooperation in finding quick solutions to the challenges that COVID-19 pandemic poses to our nations. “It is now clearly evident that no nation can independently and singlehandedly tackle a pandemic of this nature which is no respecter of borders, regions or status. “Invariably, enhancing multilateral cooperation through exchange and sharing of best practices is imperative to overcome the disease. We must, therefore, form a united front against this common enemy by being coordinated and timely in our responses. “Furthermore, we must all encourage and empower our scientists and medical experts to join the quest for a vaccine and cure to this universal plague,” he had admonished. He also urged international financial institutions to assist member states in cushioning the negative impact of the pandemic in the spirit of solidarity, which will include extending concessional loans, technical support, lowering of tariff on medical equipment and consumables, sharing of expertise in case management, adopting open trade policies, as well as outright debt cancellation. “Within the spirit of South-South cooperation, we must also assist one another, particularly the less developed and less endowed member states with technical, medical, and financial assistance. It is by so doing that we can rightly claim to uphold the Bandung Principles of equality, mutual interests, and cooperation,” President Buhari had admonished.