 The lawmaker representing Ondo South Senatorial District, Senator Nicholas Tofowomo, has said the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has only two formidable governorship aspirants in Ondo South. Over 15 persons from Ondo South have indicated interest to contest in the PDP primaries. Senator Tofowomo, who was elected on the PDP platform, said the two aspirants hailed from Okitipupa and Ilaje local governments. Tofowomo, in an interview yesterday in Akure with reporters, said the PDP will defeat Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu if it picks its candidate from Ondo South. He said that the emergence of 15 aspirants from Ondo South was a sign that the region was ready to produce the next governor. Tofowomo said: “With what is on ground now, there are two formidable aspirants in Ondo South, one from Okitipupa Local Government, and the other one from Ilaje Local Government. I believe the party will do what’s needful to rally round one of the aspirants so that one of them will become the candidate of the party. “The two aspirants are good materials. They have what it takes to become the governor. They have done very well, they have moved round the entire 18 local governments.  We don’t have to beat about the bush. Ondo South is ready for the governorship election. We are going to produce not only the candidate of the party, but also the next governor. “My position has always remained that the governorship ticket of the party should be zoned to Ondo South. Our leaders should come together and make a meaningful decision by zoning the governorship ticket to Ondo South. “If you look at the last election, PDP had very good results in Ondo South compared to other senatorial districts. “The present governor is from the North Senatorial District; but as soon as he finishes his four years, with common sense, the governorship ticket should go to the South because the Central Senatorial District spent eight years during former Governor Olusegun Mimiko administration. “So the leadership of PDP should not play games, they should be very formidable and upright. I’m speaking for Ondo South now, we are ready for the governorship election and we will deliver a good result for the party if the candidate is taken from the district. “The six local governments in Ondo South are very solid and I’m sure they are ready to produce a very good result. If the party zones the governorship ticket to the South, definitely, PDP will form the next government in Ondo State.”