 FOLLOWING incessant attacks by bandits on several communities in Katsina State, prompting appeals for security ramp-up, there is a build-up of military forces with a view to scaling back the attacks in the state. But the Senate on Tuesday called on President Muhammadu Buhari to extend the military action he ordered against bandits in Katsina State to cover contiguous states such as Zamfara, Kaduna, Niger and Sokoto. The upper chamber also called on the military and the police to increase their surveillance operation to track movements by armed bandits. It commended Buhari for the directive to launch a military offensive against bandits in Katsina State. Also yesterday, Senator Ibrahim Gobir (Sokoto East) lamented that no fewer than 5,000 members of his constituency have since fled to Niger Republic due to the activities of the bandits. Senate President Ahmad Lawan noted that the security challenges are enormous but surmountable. “Nigeria is definitely up to the task and Mr President will deploy military to the areas for restoration of sanity as gradually being witnessed in Zamfara and Katsina States,” he said. Senator Abdullahi in his lead debate recalled that the Senate had last week Tuesday, May 12, 2020, considered two separate motions on the need for the federal government to immediately address the growing spate of banditry in Niger and Kataina States, respectively. He said that the upper chamber is “aware through a Presidential Spokesman that President Muhammadu Buhari had authorised the commencement of a major military operation to sweep bandits and kidnappers out of Katsina state; as major proactive measures by Special Forces to replace the reactive strikes against the camps of these bandits and criminals.” He insisted that, “the criminalities by these armed bandits and kidnappers are carried out mostly under the cover of the contiguous forest reserves and areas stretching from Katsina, Zamfara, Kaduna and Niger states with pockets of safe havens in Kebbi and Asokoro states.” He expressed concern that “a major offensive in Katsina State alone is likely to make the armed bandits and kidnappers seek safe haven in Zamfara, Kaduna and Niger states which host the Zurmi and Kamuku forests among others, further compounding the plight of hapless and poor communities along these forest corridors.” He said further, “It was the earlier massive operations in Zamfara and Kaduna states that led the armed bandits to seek safe havens elsewhere, thus moving into Katsina and Niger States respectively; and some others pushing their luck to some parts of Asokoro and Kebbi States. Senator Gobir lamented that the people in his constituency are now at the mercy of Nigerien soldiers for protection against armed bandits.   