The Non-Academic Staff Union of Universities (NASU) University of Ilorin Chapter, has distributed N8 million to 40 retired staff members as retirement welfare package from the union. Mr Ibrahim Suberu, Chairman of the chapter, made this known on Monday, while coordinating the 2020 Retirees’ Welfare Package Programme instituted by the union. He said the package included those that retired up till Dec. 12, 2019 and their records were forwarded to them. Ibrahim appreciated efforts of the members, including the stakeholders for the achievements recoded so far. He said the union had done a lot in making sure members enjoyed all benefits of life to the best of their ability. He added that members of the union formed the largest workforce in the university and had been playing their roles in the development of the set goals by the forefathers of the university. “For avoidance of doubt, we shall be paying 40 retirees who are our members and have served the university and the union meritoriously. “Each of them will go home with N200,000, a little difference from before when we gave N150,000. “In fact we are working toward ensuring our members will be going home, after their retirement with more than N500,000,” Suberu said. The chairman prayed for the repose of the souls of late members of the union as he also remembered all other members still alive. He also prayed that God would continue to save them from the coronavirus pandemic, ravaging the whole world. Ibrahim commended the management of the university, the National NASU and the Kwara State branch for their support and assistance to the union and for prioritising the welfare of members. In her remark, the immediate past NASU Chairperson of Unilorin chapter, Mrs Olabisi Adesina, commended the NASU executive for providing such benefits in this trying period of COVID-19 pandemic. She urged stakeholders in the university to continue to support the union as better days were ahead. She also sympathised with those who lost their lives among their members. Adesina warned those in charge of the deceased families not to create problems for the children and the widows left behind. She thanked the leadership of the University of Ilorin and the security unit for giving maximum support to the current chairman. In his goodwill message, the Kwara Chapter Secretary of NASU, Mr Owoeye Olusina, who doubles as Vice President of Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) applauded efforts of the past leadership of the Unilorin chapter of NASU. Olusina who was represented by Mr Peters Adeyemi, General Secretary of NASU, commended the union and urged them to intensify efforts on welfare of members by organising yearly training on welfare package. He also urged the union to set retirement agenda for members, create soft loans to finance businesses through a formidable committee. He also suggested improved welfare scheme by trading and registering the union welfare scheme with the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC). Some of the beneficiaries included; Mr. Clement Iyoha; Mr. Rapheal Idowu and Mr. John Uboh, among others. (NAN)