 Pastors who supported the closure of churches worldwide in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic by authorities worldwide have done a great disservice to the body of Christ, founder of Christ Embassy, Pastor Chris Oyakhilome, has declared. He declared such leaders were not true Christians and should be blamed for the inability of people to “see the hands of God” during the pandemic. A visibly angry Oyakhilome also queried the decision to shut out COVID-19 patients from churches despite the popular notion churches should be healing centres. In a telecast to his members, the Edo-born popular preacher took on his fellow preachers, saying many of them are sell-outs. ““In different cities, ministers of God gathered together and shut down the congregations of the Lord. “How many said, let us pray; give us time to pray? They consulted you; they consulted you in different nations and states. How many of you said, let us pray? “Because they said there would be compensation for the period of the lockdown. What compensation can be enough to replace the praise and worship of the congregation? “I hope you have enjoyed the time so far, only you in the cathedral did online transmission. Hope you enjoyed it so far? But thank you very much for what you did to the House of God.” He added: “COVID-19 compliant churches will mean churches that people who are infected with COVID-19 cannot come there. “Is the church of Jesus Christ not a place of healing? So, those of you who love to run around government officials to get your validation, come and get COVID-19 compliant registration for your church. That is the last day Jesus will be in that church. Oyakhilome, who told his congregation he had a lot to tell them, said churches would soon be asked to set up testing centres because people would not be going for testing. He also kicked against proposed development of vaccines for coronavirus. “What they are using to test, do you know what it is? Do you know why it can show positive and negative? Do you know? “A virus they told us they are still studying, why don’t they study it first? They are still studying it and they already have a vaccine that could be ready in July for a virus they are still studying,” he stated.