 The Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) has donated N25 million to the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 pandemic. Its Managing Director, Adebayo Somefun, who made this known in Abuja, urged  philanthropists and development agencies to also contribute to the fund. He said: “Nigeria and of course the world at large is going through an overwhelming, unprecedented and dangerous phenomenal challenge, as the growing COVID-19 pandemic bites harder. “However, this has brought exceptional unity among nations, states, communities, businesses, religions, professions, individuals etc. as all coming together to explore different approaches to help respond and victoriously overcome this ugly global outbreak. Accordingly, the massive solidarity and support orchestrated by this shared concern is very welcome and commendable.” The NSITF chief highlighted that N20 million was for the purchase of ventilators, N2 million for the purchase of medical items, such as face masks, hand gloves, hand sanitisers, disinfectant, swab sticks while N3 million was for the purchase of various food items as palliatives to the vulnerable.  Somefun described palliatives are a very strategic step to provide for the vulnerable group, saying: “Yes palliatives because, according to the Philadelphia declaration, ILO 1944, ‘poverty anywhere constitutes a danger everywhere.” While applauding the Federal Government for taking steps to tame the speed of the virus among the populace, the NSITF boss urged all Nigerians to adhere to the social distancing protocols and health advices given to protect us from being infected with this deadly virus. He said: “I commended the dedication of President Muhammadu Buhari for taking prompt action to keep the virus controllable, coupled with the number of people that have been healed and discharged from the various isolation centres etc. It is, indeed, this is a rare feat, considering what is happening in more developed countries, with better medical facilities. The truth is that the situation would have been far worse if not for the promptness of Mr. President and the tireless, devoted and spirited efforts of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19-led by the indefatigable Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha.’’