Filmmaker, Adekunle ‘Nodash’ Adejuyigbe, has opened up on how he was told by several movie practitioners not to make his high flying film, ‘The Delivery Boy’. In a recent chat with Nodash, he narrated how the production crew and actors rejected the script when he made up his mind to address the issue of terrorism using film. “I was told not to make this movie. Three of the actors I cast, and the production designer I hired, turned down the project after reading the script. They all agreed it was a good script but they felt uncomfortable talking about the things that, in the Nigerian society, we typically refuse to talk about,” Adejuyigbe told The Nation. A determined filmmaker bent on achieving his aim and goal, Nodash went ahead to approach other actors and production crew that eventually agreed to work with him on the project. The film, which bagged 12 nominations at the 2019 Africa Movie Academy Award (AMAA), and has been screened at over 10 local and international Film Festivals in the last two years, went on to become the second most-streamed film after it made its entry on Netflix. On how financially draining the film was to his purse, Nodash says many people thought he was crazy when he embarked on the film project. He says, “On the financial side of things, people felt it was crazy, making a self-funded movie that would likely not be allowed to screen in Nigerian cinemas. They felt it was more prudent to make the usual slapstick comedies the Nigerian film industry was known for. “But these are the exact reasons why I felt it was important to make the movie. I believe one of the main purposes of art is to ‘tour guide’ the audience through ideas and places that they normally wouldn’t dare explore. I also wanted to present Nigerians and Africans as I saw them. As people who are not one-dimensional and simple-minded as they are usually presented. As people with multi-layered characters; whose motivations are, sometimes, hidden even from their selves. As a people having to deal with the realities of living in a world where the lines between good & evil, right & wrong, moral and moral are permanently blurred,” Nodash stressed. ‘The Delivery Boy’ tells the story of a runaway, teenage, suicide bomber and his newfound ally, a young prostitute. The duo must rely on each other to survive the night while searching for answers to the terrible secrets that made them who they are.