 HOUSE of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila, governors, All Progressives Congress (APC) National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole, Minister of Labour and Employment Dr Chris Ngige and others on Wednesday congratulated Prof Ibrahim Gambari on his appointment as President Muhammadu Buhari’s Chief of Staff. Gbajabiamila, in a statement by his spokesman, Lanre Lasisi, said Gambari is a round peg in a round hole, considering his vast experience. Deputy Senate President, Senator Omo-Agege expressed optimism that Prof Gambari’s intellectual achievements and decades of international experience will have positive impact on the progressive objectives of the Buhari administration. Omo-Agege said: “I join millions of other Nigerians in congratulating Professor Ibrahim Gambari on this new national assignment as Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari. “There is no doubt that his towering intellectual achievements and pragmatic international experience are critical towards a successful discharge of the onerous responsibilities of the office, especially at this critical point in the life of the administration. “I pray that God will further guide, protect and inspire you and our dear President towards actualising the progressive ideals that we have set out to achieve, for the benefit of millions of Nigerians and coming generations.” The Northern Governors’ Forum (NGF), in a statement by its chairman, Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State, said the appointment was well-deserved. “We assure him of our support and prayers, as he takes on this very important role,” he said. Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Onogwu Muhammed, described Gambari as a man of many parts whose wealth of knowledge and experience remain unrivalled in Africa. “Your coming in to fill the vacuum will further add colour to the administration’s achievements,” he said. Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq said Gambari’s appointment was befitting. “The appointment is clearly fit for purpose and is deserving for our own Prof Gambari whose record of service as a diplomat and global statesman is unblemished,” AbdulRazaq said in a statement by his spokesman, Rafiu Ajakaye. Sokoto State Governor Aminu Tambuwal, in a congratulatory message by his Special Adviser Media and Publicity, Muhammad Bello, said Gambari, by the new appointment, was well-positioned to support the President and the country at large. “We are firmly confident that you will now replicate your numerous feats to manage the affairs of Mr President and the Presidency,” Tambuwal said. Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Gboyega Akosile, said Gambari is a man of impeccable character, right temperament, leadership and knowledge. ‘‘The choice is commendable. Gambari is not just an academic or a diplomat; he is a fine gentleman, a decent Nigerian who epitomises the Nigerian dream,” Sanwo-Olu said. Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki, in a statement, said Prof. Gambari is well-deserving of the appointment. He said: “With his diverse and robust experience in managing multi-country projects and extensive reach within the international community, Prof. Gambari is sure to bring a fresh perspective to the President’s quest to move Nigeria to the next level.” The governor also commended President Buhari for his choice of such a consummate professional as his Chief of Staff. Ondo State Governor Oluwarotimi Areredolu and Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege congratulated Gambari on his appointment. Akeredolu expressed optimism Gambari will not disappoint Nigerians in view of his experience in both national and global politics said the Ambassador’s long public career and a university teacher would come in handy in his new role. The All Progressives Congress (APC) said Gambari’s appointment demonstrated President Buhari’s avowed commitment to good governance. “Indeed, Prof Gambari ticks all the boxes as a round peg in a round hole. The APC is confident that Gambari, a Prince of Ilorin Emirate, will bring to bear his scholarly intellect, international network, professional and administrative experience in ensuring the smooth running of the office of the President and support the government to provide good governance and successfully deliver the Next Level programmes for the benefit of Nigerians,” APC said in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu. Oshiomhole hailed the appointment as “most sagacious”. Senator Ngige, in statement by his media aide, Emmanuel Nzomiwu, said the appointment was deserving. “It is our hope that his huge knowledge of public service and wealth of experience will be brought to bear on the domestic policies of the Buhari administration and foreign policy thrust, to chart a new course in these trying times,” he said. Former Senate President Bukola Saraki said Gambari “is a decent man, a cerebral academic, disciplined diplomat” who “is coming in with the necessary pedigree that will help him to do well on the job”. “I have no doubt that he will succeed in this onerous assignment. I urge all Nigerians to give him all the support that he needs to perform in office,” Saraki said. The Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) expressed confidence that Gambari will work for the peace and progress of Nigeria. Its National Publicity Secretary, Emmanuel Yawe, said ACF received the news “with great joy”. “The Forum is confident that Prof Gambari, being the patriot that we know, will put all his wealth of knowledge and experience at the disposal of the President for the peace and progress of Nigeria,” ACF said. An APC governorship aspirant in Edo State, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, in a statement by his campaign organisation, said Gambari would serve the President and Nigeria with utmost dedication, sincerity of purpose and excellence.