By Omobola Toolu-Kusimo  Leadway Assurance Company Limited has announced a package for its Personal Motor Comprehensive Insurance policyholders during the coronavirus (Covid-19) lockdown. The offer is  equivalent to two-week premium to policyholders who were constrained to ground their vehicles in compliance of the lockdown order by the Federal Government, in alignment with the World Health Organisation’s social distancing recommendations. Leadway Asurance Managing Director, Mr. Tunde Hassan-Odukale, said the lockdown has affected every part of the country, challenging both individuals and businesses. He pointed out that people were watching and would remember how businesses treated them during this crisis. He said: ‘’Our decision to provide the “give back” to our loyal comprehensive motor insurance policyholders will go a long way to support customers experiencing unforeseen pressure on their finances at this time. “The value of the airtime, equivalent of 50 per cent of a month’s premium, will be credited to customers by the end of April 2020 following confirmation of customer details.  Customers with financial burdens can also call to discuss extended grace periods for missed payments, payment plans, and waiving late fees and penalties. The firm’s Commercial Director for General Insurance, Mr. Gboyega Lesi said: “As society works together to slow the spread of COVID-19, there are more people at home, driving less and having fewer accidents. Given this reduction in road risks due to little or no driving, it is only fair that some premium be refunded so that the customer does not lose at the end of the day. It is the responsible thing to do in the face of a pandemic-inspired economic lockdown. We hope that this support will in some way help our motor insurance clients deal with the rough patches.” It would be recalled that the company, along with other stakeholders, provided a N5billion life insurance for the frontline health workers who are helping the nation to combat the pandemic.