  IT is not called novel for nothing. Many months after it was identified in Wuhan, China, the best minds in science are still trying to understand a virus that’s always one step ahead of human knowledge. It is humbling hearing famous doctors, and the best scientists, repeat that there’s so much about this disease we don’t know, therefore necessitating caution in the way it is handled. Everyone is experimenting – even politicians for whom the virus has dropped like a hideous fly in the electoral ointment. US President Donald Trump, for one, has gone from just advocating the efficacy of the unproven hydroxychloroquine, to actually gobbling ‘a pill a day’ as prophylaxis. Here in Nigeria, tardiness of conventional medical practice in providing a cure has caused many to push government to embrace alternatives like herbal medicine. Always on the lookout for something new, they have embraced the so-called Madagascan herbal mixture that was supposedly so effective that it healed all on the island who contracted Covid-19, with no fatalities. It helped that the island country’s president has mounted a vigorous campaign touting the brew, selling it as his favourite tonic. Now, by popular demand, the magic potion has landed on these shores by the circuitous route of Guinea Bissau. But trust President Muhammadu Buhari to be a spoilsport. The mixture, he has warned, wouldn’t be dispensed to thirsty Nigerians until it has passed a rigorous scientific examination! President Andry Rajoelina swears the so-called ‘Covid-Organics’ works despite never being subjected to clinical trials. He has done a good job of marketing it by pushing buttons that resonate in a world held spellbound by conspiracy theories. “What if this remedy had been discovered by a European country, instead of Madagascar? Would people doubt it so much? I don’t think so,” he asked in a recent interview. “What is the problem with Covid-Organics, really? Could it be that this product comes from Africa? Could it be that it’s not OK for a country like Madagascar, which is the 63rd poorest country in the world… to have come up with (this formula) that can help save the world?” The drink is derived from artemisia – a plant with anti-malarial properties – and other indigenous herbs, and supposedly cures patients in ten days. By the way, Madagascar just recorded its first coronavirus-related death despite ‘Covid-Organics.’ But that’s not bad, compared to the toll in countries which have turned their noses at this bit of liquid African magic. That said, the malaria link is quite intriguing. Don’t be surprised if –when a cure is found, or an explanation established for why Africa has not produced the death rates recorded in Europe and North America – there’s a connection to malaria. A little over a week ago, proprietor of African Independent Television (AIT), Dr. Raymond Dokpesi, and some members of his family who had been diagnosed as Covid-19 positive, were treated and managed a swift recovery from the disease. Dokpesi, on release from isolation, regaled the world with tales of being treated solely with malaria drugs. He wondered whether there was really any difference between malaria and Covid-19. For his trouble he got a polite lecture from NCDC boss, Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, about one (Covid-19) being caused by a virus, and the other, brought on by a parasite. Many would continue to doubt if apples are different from oranges until they have a Damascus Road conversion – most likely in an isolation ward. Fresh from his lockdown heroics that saw him bulldozing two hotels whose proprietors violated his Executive Order, Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, announced a relaxation window of four days to enable his people stock up on necessities for the final battle against the virus. The very next day he was seen attending an event of his People’s Democratic Party (PDP). He even managed to find himself in the middle of an overcrowded photograph that appeared to have been taken in an age before someone invented ‘social distancing.’ Cynics allege he deliberately relaxed the lockdown to create a convenient legal window for the event. But who can begrudge a man a little overcrowding after the exhaustions of keeping the crowds off the streets of Port Harcourt. One thing that is becoming clear after nearly two months of living under restrictions, is that people are developing corona fatigue. Lagos is the epicentre of the outbreak with 2,550 of the over 6,000 confirmed cases. After five weeks of a pretend lockdown, the government has been casting around for other solutions – including imposing a short term shut down. It subjected the idea to, of all things, a social media poll. On Facebook it was roundly rejected. I am mystified as to why anyone would do this. This is a matter that should ordinarily be determined largely by science, even if its implementation would have economic consequences. Why subject it to polling by a multitude – many of whom lack knowledge to decide rationally, or don’t even believe Covid-19 exists? Social media polling has its uses, but I would rather it is left for voting out participants in a reality show than for deciding measures to rein in a killer virus. The government has since come out to say it is working to open up the entire state economy. Around the country, governors are falling over themselves to do the same – not because the rate of infection is declining, but because pressure for people to get back to their normal lives is becoming unbearable. People cannot abide being shut away for long, so we have to adjust to the implications of carrying on in the absence of cures and vaccines. When HIV/AIDS broke out in the 80s, there was so much fear and dread; and for many who contracted it in those days it was a death sentence. There’s still no cure or vaccine for it. But therapies have been developed over the decades that have enabled people live fairly normal lives whilst carrying the virus in their bodies. With regular handwashing, rubbing of sanitiser and wearing of face masks, we are simply making peace with the fact that Covid-19 will always be an unseen threat – a touch, a breath away – until science delivers a solution.