Contrary to its earlier position at Thursday plenary on donations to covid-19 to the executive, the Lagos State House of Assembly has made a u-turn saying it is yet to conclude on its deliberation on the issue. The House said “There were no conclusions or decisions reached by the lawmakers at the sitting on Thursday, May 7, 2020,” the statement from the Assembly signed the spokesperson of the Assembly, Hon. Tunde Braimoh read. It said it had not concluded on the report of its Committee on Health concerning the observations raised by the Executive in relation to the bill but only debated some of the issues raised. Discrediting the report in some sections of the media which said that the Assembly asked Governor Sanwo-Olu to account for the COVID-19 funds donated to the state, the statement said it passed the coronavirus pandemic law to empower the governor to carry out some functions relating to covid-19. The House went ahead to commend the Executive Arm for its cooperation and unity of purpose, saying that at this period of a major health crisis, it can only take a passionate person like the Governor, with the needed support of the state’s lawmakers, to keep things running. It described the efforts of Sanwo-Olu and his team in the fight against the spread of COVID-19 pandemic as worthwhile. Braimoh said that the House never particularly asked the Governor to start accounting for the donations as reported, especially at a time when the challenge is still being tackled. “The Speaker of the House, Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, had, during the sitting, explained that the Governor cannot be invited by a Committee in the event of the need for clarifications post-COVID-19 pandemic. “It is noteworthy that the bill grants the Governor some powers which eases his access to funds for the emergency situation. It also gives him power to make proclamations where necessary,” he said. It would be recalled that the executive, probably due to reports on debates on covid-19 donations at plenary on Thursday, published the list of all donors in an advertorial in newspapers the following day. 