The leader of Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu has threatened to kick out of the organisation those who sabotage the sacred Biafra project. Kanu said this in a statement signed by the IPOB Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful and made available to the Nation on Saturday in Owerri., the Imo State capital. He warned that the saboteurs would not only be shredded and destroyed “worse things will happen to you if we catch you.” “There is no forgiveness, no pardon, no pity, no diplomacy, no bridge building. Once you are out, you are an outcast forever. “Form as many useless pro-Biafra groups as you like with help of DSS or Ohaneze Ndi, gossip as much as you like with your multiple fake accounts, you will never be allowed back in. “We allow petty saboteurs to keep coming forward because it makes it easier for us to destroy them. The more dangerous ones are those in our midst pretending but working for the enemy. “Any IPOB appealling to online traitors to stop hating Kanu and IPOB is mentally weak. IPOB was forged in the heat of battle and purified in the furnace ceaseless confrontation for 8 years. Bridge building with traitors is for the confused and unfocused. “We are IPOB, we conquer and subdue our enemies with overwhelming evidence and incontrovertible proof. We drown them in the pool of truth. “We love trouble, enmity and confrontation because we believe and know that enemies within and without are good for us the same way a good immune system can only be built by the body confronting viruses and bacteria on a regular basis. We are arrogant yes! Because IPOB is the best there is in the whole world. An unarmed group that broke a country with nothing but truth. “If as a frontline activist you mistakenly think that our love and praise of your work for Biafra means we are gullible and can be divided, then we show you who we are. Any day you step out of line, you are toast, we would sink you because many have died, imprisoned and tortured for this Biafra. “We are like the vultures, we have no friends, we have no enemies. We only love those that pursue Biafra in truth and honesty. Once you deviate, then its bye bye, no matter who you think you are.”