Janet Chinyere Jumbo is passionate about her career in modeling. She is the first Nigerian to model for Louis Vuitton. In this interview with YETUNDE OLADEINDE, she opens up on her runway experience, what makes her different and challenges of her industry. Tell us about your life as a model? Looking back from when I started, I must say that my life as a model has been very interesting. It has been a learning curve with different experiences and opportunities that have helped to define who I am today.  You must be determined, focused and open your mind to the changes as you go along. I have also learnt a lot of things, growing and developing my skills in the sector. This comes with a number of growth and you also get to experience life in a better way as well. How would you describe the journey so far? What are your memories? I must say that my journey to fame has been sporadic, way above my imagination. All to the glory of God. I must also say that the special favour of God has located me at different point and it has been awesome. The journey actually started with the passion and drive from those I call my mother agency. They worked so hard, polished me and within a short while the magic took place. What was your first experience on the runway like? My first experience was neck-racking! It was for Louis Vuitton and I was just 16 years old at that point. I must confess that I was so nervous and afraid of falling or not walking the right path. I had butterflies in my stomach and I also recall that I kept asking a lot of questions just before stepping out. Finally, when it was time to step out, the experience was beautiful, things went smoothly and I just couldn’t believe what was happening to me. The experience was awesome when I got on the runway and all this fired my inspiration. I recall then that the vibes, music and friends made it really exciting and worthwhile.  What was it like at the beginning? The truth of the matter is that I was skeptical at the beginning. I remember when the agency approached me with the offer, I was a bit scared. I kept wondering what to expect and whether it was something worth giving a trial. In addition, my family was also very skeptical about it. But we later had an open mind, the terrain looked promising, we understood what was expected of me, accepted the opportunity, took the bold step and everything unfolded gradually. What is your assessment of modeling in Nigeria compare to their foreign counterpact? The modeling industry in Nigeria looks good on the surface. However, I must say that I have never worked in Nigeria as a model. So I can’t really say what it’s like or the experiences of the models who are working in the country at the moment. Let’s compare when you started and now, what has changed? It has been a very interesting journey for me. I think everything about me has changed. The exposure has been really great and it has been a great influence in my life and career. It has broadened my horizon and I now see things from a better perspective. So, taking a deeper looking at where I am coming from, I would say that a lot has changed starting from my level of maturity, my personal style, my behavior and attitude towards people and events. I have really learnt a lot and I am grateful for the opportunity. How has working in the sector influenced your life? Yes, working in the sector has influenced me greatly. Working in the industry actually taught me that one can go from zero to hundred and from hundred to zero. The most important thing is your mind-set, your determination to excel and be the best in the field.  One other thing that I have also learnt is to be humble and be contented with what I have. Tell us about the people you admire or role models? There are a number of models around the world who have carved a niche for themselves. One of such models is Alek Wek; I admire her personality and the things that she stands for in the industry. I also admire Queen Onyemaechi and Cardi B. What is your definition of style? What won’t be caught dead with in the name of fashion? My definition of style is looking good; it must also be what makes me feel pretty and confident. That has worked for me and it actually defines what I wear and has become my personal style. Tell us how mentoring has helped your career? Mentoring has helped my career a lot and it has guided me to walk along paths that are creative, motivating and enduring. I must also say that it has saved me from social pressure, helped me manage my life well and stay strong all the time. What lessons did you learn working in the sector? You learn something new every day and I really appreciate that. So, working in the sector has taught me how to respond to certain situations. Some of the lessons for me include keeping to time in whatever I do and being humble. What are some of the things that you treasure most in life? I treasure Love, respect and time. They make you to be a focused person; it also brings happiness and a positive disposition to life. What are some of the challenges encountered on the job? To the glory of God, I have been privileged to be a worldwide exclusive to Louis Vuitton, working exclusively for the brand. The experience has been good .I haven’t really experienced any challenges. I am also happy and proud to say that I have one of the best agents and most importantly managers worldwide helping me see everything through .One other interesting experience in the sector was when I worked for Zara. It was great but it was an e-Commerce thing. Tell us about some of the exciting moments as a model? The experiences that I have had are really nice and memorable. For me, the best moment was when I travelled to an Island for a magazine shoot. That was La Gomera Island in Spain and the memories still linger. It was like a vacation, I loved everything and the environment was a great source of inspiration. Every moment spent shooting at the beach was relaxed, it was really exciting. Another memorable experience for me was when I travelled to Paris for the two campaigns I did for Louis Vuitton. The experience was unforgettable because I also made new friends during the campaign which was the best part of it all. What are some of the other things that occupy your time? I spend time in the gym when I am not at work. I love to go to the gym. It helps me keep fit. It’s a routine that has become a part of my life. I usually go to the gym from Monday to Saturday every week. It has helped me a lot, especially with my tummy and body shape. Also, I see it as something that takes my time, when I have nothing to do especially in the morning when I am less busy. What makes you different from others? Interestingly, what makes me different from others is my weird playlist. The list includes PINK, The ERYs and ICON all by Jaden Smith. Others are Press by Cardi B, Highest in the room by Travis Scott, Wish by DJ Khalid, Will by Joyner Lucas ft Will Smith and lastly Culture by Umuobligbo. I call them weird because only boys or men like to listen to the songs. It is really rare before you find a girl listening to them. Let’s talk about the women who inspire you? Alek Wek is number one; she’s beautiful and I love her works. Next on the list of women who inspire me is Queen Onyemaechi, she’s a sister. She’s always strong, no matter the situation and her great work ethic is also amazing. I also get a lot of inspiration from the Smith family. I think they are very creative; they inspire me in different ways. Cardi B is funny and her sense of humor is amazing. I admire her because she is also a realist; she is one personality who doesn’t care what people think about her.  If you had to advise young people who want to go into the sector, what would you be tell them? There are so many opportunities for young people in the sector today and it would be great to have more people on board. My advice to them would therefore be to always stay focus and believe in themselves. Where do you hope to be in the next few years? In the next few years, I hope to be a business woman and top famous model. Most importantly, I also hope to get married and raise my family. What types of books do you like to read? The truth of the matter is that I don’t like reading books. What about the Cinemas, tell us about your favourite movies? I am also not the Cinema type. I think I prefer watching movies when it is on Netflix. That way I enjoy it better. What items do you cherish most in your wardrobe!? I cherish my trousers and my shoes so much. This is because I can just get any top and be satisfied with the style easily. But my trousers are really important to me. I cherish them so much.