Governments’ and non-governmental organisations’ efforts at distributing Covid 19 palliatives to ease the pains of the lockdown have had their flaws. OMOLOLA AFOLABI‘s account of what the citizens go through to get the palliatives paints a picture of how people suffer to get what is meant to relieve them.  Omolara Adetona trades in baby care products. Since what she sells are not seen as essential goods, she is forced to close down her shop and her only source of income. Her ex-husband has run from his family and his responsibilities for some years now. Now, she battles to feed her children. She was encountered at the distribution of COVID-19 palliatives organised by a non-governmental organisation (NGO). As she struggled with the crowd to get into the venue, paying no attention to the whip- brandishing stone-eyed soldiers manning the makeshift gate, she got was whipped, making her bleed. She got furious but the ravenous hunger she left her children with made her skin impervious to the soldiers’ brutality. “I already promised them I wouldn’t come home without food, if this is the sacrifice I will have to make for my kids not to starve, then, it is okay,” she said in between gasps, weak with motherly affection yet strengthened by the prospects of finally feeding her little hungry tots.” Deborah Awojobi is a nursing mother whose baby is teething. She lives with her aged mother. Her husband, a commercial mini-bus (yellow bus) driver, otherwise known as Danfo, could not work as his transportation business has been clamped down as a result of COVID-19 lockdown. He is in the same dilemma with his wife as they are left with no alternative income. Hence, they are being forced to stay home grumpy and cranky. “My baby has been in pains for two days. He has been showing the expected symptoms of teething. I can’t even afford to buy him teething mixture to alleviate his pains,” she said amidst tears. Micheal Stephen is an artisan whose wife is a Lagos State Waste Management Authority (LAWMAN) official. According to him, the lockdown has put him in an unprecedented financial distraught. “My wife just received her March salary yesterday. Currently, we’ve switched roles as she is the breadwinner of the family. My last son has been down with fever for a couple of days now, how do we even get money to buy him drugs when we have not fed him? We don’t know maybe if we give him food, he might even recover without any medication at all. “It is very disappointing to see that despite the fact some of us have taken the sacrifice to stay home, a lot more people still do not appreciate the temerity of the situation we have in our hands and still move around without recourse to the lockdown. “I do not enjoy staying at home while I watch my children gnaw in hunger. Before the lockdown, I had a booming business and I never had to come looking for palliatives from the government, NGOs or any individual, I have too much self-confidence, but right now, that has to be a sacrifice at the altar of parenthood,” he said. Madam Mariam Kasali, a 71-year-old widow’s dirge-like grumblings drew the attention of The Nation to the plight of beneficiaries of Covid 19 palliatives. ” You people that asked us, widows, to stay at home without any food or money, you see how you are making me roam the streets with my grey hair and bent back. “My children, who normally would have sent me money by now, have long been out of work as they could not even afford to feed their own immediate families at the moment,” she said with the disturbing comportment of an elder, who has experienced the world at its cruellest. The organisers of the donation were overwhelmed when the barriers created to keep people away were broken by the “overflowing” number of beneficiaries as against the number already planned for. Calling the bluff of social distancing, they trooped in en-masse, although all hungry, yet energetic by the ravenous hunger in their bellies and those of their children whining at home. All gates were broken, even the fiery-looking soldiers became docile and overpowered as their whips became mere apparel. The organisers were also mobbed, almost to the point of being brutally injured. They luckily escaped the horde and instead of seething with fury, they were touched with the reality that the situation was direr than ever envisaged. The food packages were flung in the air with 10 or more people struggled for one pack. It later ended up with no one getting anything as the packaged rice were spilt on the floor, noodles flung off and beans scattered! One of the organisers, Kalu Nwankwo, said: “There is hunger in the land, ravaging hunger! This is an experience I have never had. We had plans for 1000 individuals, but we had about 5,000 showing up. I think we might have to redouble our efforts and probably partner sister NGOs to alleviate the very stark and embarrassing realities of this lockdown.” Lagos State, following President Muhammadu Buhari’s directive, declared a total lockdown in the state since March 30 and subsequently extended it on April 13. Being the epicentre of the pandemic, it has confirmed 1037 cases as of April 28, according to figures from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). The lockdown has come with grave socio-economic implications both on the state and individuals, especially the daily wage workers and low-income earners, coupled with security challenges such as the rise in robbery cases. However, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has ordered mass production of face masks to reduce the transmission of the virus.  This is to ensure its availability and affordability. It will thereafter be followed by strict enforcement on compliance as the governor said: “Even if you must go out, ensure you wear masks.” The state government has also created palliatives measures tagged: “Lagos Emergency Food Response and Kitchen Programme”, which unfortunately have not achieved the desired outcome. NGOs and good-spirited individuals have risen to the occasion to complement government’s efforts which might have yielded some fruits. However, with the rate at which new cases are being confirmed daily, the government might need to redouble its efforts and become more strategic and ingenious with the interventions and be stricter on compliance with the rules such as the ban on inter-state travels in order not to sabotage all efforts aimed at stemming the tide of the novel virus. Ex-Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor Prof. Charles Soludo suggested that Africa, with its slums and shanties, cannot survive lockdowns as even before Covid-19, was battling multiplicity of diseases, especially among its poor. According to him, social distancing in most parts of Africa will remain impractical, from the shanties in South Africa to the crowded Ajegunle, social clustering not distancing is the affordable, survivalist culture. From his economic point of view, he summed up that not more than five per cent of Africa’s 1.3 billion people can possibly survive any prolonged lockdown on their own finances. According to Prof. Soludo, “we should think African, but act locally and opportunistically to survive, prosper and exploit the global opportunities offered by the crisis.” He added that Africa needs a package for creating sustainable prosperity in a world of continuous techno-economic health disruptions. Some of the solutions prescribed should include paying more than cursory attention to our rich herbs and roots as we never can tell if the cure to corona lies in one of those underestimated shrubs in our thick forests. Soludo said compliance with “mask up Lagos” policy, basic hygiene, daily disinfection of all open markets, public vehicles, trains, everyday provision of affordable hand sanitisers and handwashing facilities in public would do the magic of curbing the novel virus. He is, however, optimistic about the number of jobs this will provide for the teeming African populace. 