Northern States Christian Elders Forum, (NOSCEF) Kaduna Chapter has called on Kaduna State Governor, Mallam Nasir El-Rufa’i and the Federal Government to channel similar energy used in combating COVID-19 into the fight against bandits killing their people. The forum which called on concerned authorities to rise to occasion and checkmate the increasing insecurity in Kaduna state and the country, where innocent and law abiding citizens are being killed ceaselessly noted that, the primary purpose of government in the modern world is to protect lives and property. The forum in a statement jointly signed by its Chairman, Hon. Garba Asondu, Cecretary Pst. Joseph Shuwa and PRO, Evang Ephraim Kazzah lamented over the alarming rate of killings, kidnapping, banditry and armed robbery in Kajuru, Birnin Gwari, Giwa Local Governments and environs, saying the menace is “becoming very unacceptable in this political dispensation in this 21st century.” It said, “As respected Christian Elders, we believe that the APC government in Kaduna State, Nigeria will not allow itself to be link with these negative allegations as posterity will not forgive it. Violence in all history has always been an ill-wind that does not do good to anyone no matter the temporary benefits that one might have seemed to gain. Moreover, every evil done to man by man must surely be paid by man, time or God. Nigeria and our dear state must not be allowed to descend into the state anomie. “While we appreciate the efforts of our state and the federal government in fighting this Corona virus pandemic; greater efforts should exercise in fighting terrorism, armed banditry, armed robbery, communal clashes and other violent and social crimes to make our country and state truly civil and God fearing. They appealed to all Armed forces to be “patriotic nationalist and very professional in the discharge of their responsibilities without fear or favour. “We call on all Nigerians to be God-fearing by living peacefully with their neighbor’s in-spite of our religious, tribal, political and our social-cultural differences. Let there be unity in our diversity. Let us promote friendship across our diversity. “We appeal to our citizens, organizations, corporations, churches, mosques, government and government agencies, philanthropists to promptly and kindly move-in and assist all victims of these dastardly acts of in-humanity to man. We appreciate all good citizens in alerting their neighbors of impending attacks or help them to escape. The good Lord will bless you and your generation in Jesus name, Amen.” NOSCEF said.