 SOME three days ago, former Kano State Works and Infrastructure commissioner, Muazu Magaji, disclosed his COVID-19 status. He said he had tested positive to the virus. He had got in touch with the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), he moaned, after he felt unwell for close to a week. Nearly a month earlier, Governor Abdullahi Ganduje had on April 18 sacked Mr Magaji a day after making what was described as indecent and unfeeling comments on the death of Abba Kyari, chief of staff to President Muhammadu Buhari. About three weeks after he made the sarcastic comments on Mr Kyari, Mr Magaji was himself diagnosed with coronavirus. He confessed that the test followed persistent fever, cough and headache symptoms which he battled for about a week. Even though he tried to justify his comments on the late chief of staff to the president, insisting that Mr Kyari occupied a visible and high-profile position in government, which affects all Nigerians, neither the governor nor many Nigerians thought he was wise in venting his spleen so openly and so candidly. He should not speak ill of the dead, they chorused. And now that he too has caught the giant flu, what would he think if others were to mock him, as they are certain to do in the days ahead? Or perhaps, everyone, especially in Abuja, Kano and Kaduna will tread gingerly in making comments on the subject so that a similar fate does not befall them. On April 18, Mr Magaji had made the following comments on Facebook on the late Mr Kyari, and it is left to the reader to judge the tone: (a) “Abba Kyari is no ordinary citizen. He amassed so much power that decided the fate of my nation and its people…Hence his death is never personal.” (b) “Nigeria is bigger than any individual…While praying for the president’s late support staff…Ours is to prevent a repeat of his non-accountable, domineering era!” (c) “There is a world of difference between a good person and a good leader…Leadership is an aggregated quality of mass empathy, not personal favours!” (d) “May Allah heal Abba Kyari…But may Allah not return him as Chief of Staff…PMB needs to be his own man.” (e) “It’s very important we put things in perspective so that we can save our system from punitive unconstitutional usurpers in the future! Democracy & democratic equity does not by itself strive.. It must be guarded and protected… One person, just one person can set a dangerous precedence! When you are all done with the pretence and crocodile tears, we will do a review in overriding interest of the Nation and its people!” Realising that the public would judge his coronavirus status in terms of his acerbic comments on Mr Kyari, Mr Magaji quickly opened up on the same social media that brought him some controversial fame. Said he, “Dear all, I do truly apologize for you not getting across to me on phone or msgs….I have been indisposed due to ongoing health challenges some of us are going through in Kano…This morning my NCDC test is out. I have been confirmed Covid-19 Positive.  And have been moved to one of the state facilities…pray for us!” He will be wondering at the back of his mind what the public will think of him, whether they will say it is a case of being hoisted with his own petard, or whether they will be sympathetic to him in contrast to how he punned the death of Mr Kyari in a cryptic obituary. His suspicions regarding what others might say probably led him to ask his special adviser, Muslihu Yusuf Ali, to quickly issue a statement following his admission of illness. The statement was apologetic and indirectly expiatory. Said Mr Ali, explicating Mr Magaji’s coronavirus status: “Mr Magaji had been complaining of fever, headache and cough for almost one week until he called the NCDC hotline three days back for COVID-19 test. The results came out positive and they had to move him immediately to Muhammadu Buhari Hospital Giginyu on isolation as one of the COVID-19 protocols. His tireless efforts on developmental projects in Kano within very brief time as Commissioner of Works and Infrastructure in the Ganduje administration will never be forgotten by Kano citizens and Nigerians at large. Also more unforgettably is the most recent achievement he laid as a member of the Kano State Task Force Commitee on COVID-19 where he had a fine coordination and supervision of all isolation centres in Kano. The mingling of the workaholic commissioner hand in hand with commissioner of health, members of COVID-19 task force, health professionals, and NCDC caused him to be at high risk of the disease.” The explanations are well taken; and in any case, it has become risky to mock anyone for testing positive to, or dying from, COVID-19. But Mr Ali’s statement also sadly reads like an elegy, especially the part that lauded the former Works commissioner’s contributions to both the Ganduje administration and the development of Kano State. Does the special adviser fear that Mr Magaji’s positive test result is a death sentence? Hopefully, the former Works commissioner will soon recover, as indeed most afflicted people do. A man of his peculiar gifts, particularly his sardonic scribbles and gallows humour, is sorely needed in these bitter, recriminative and humourless times. Here is hoping Mr Magaji a quick recovery. The nation has had enough deaths from that abominable virus.