 ARMED bandits attacked four communities of Kuriga, Komo, Danhonu II and Doka Mai Jama’a in Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State on Monday. The gunmen, in separate attacks, abducted 15 persons including a village head, while a security guard, Emmanuel Yerima, was killed. The Kuriga and Komo communities attacks took place in the early hours of Monday between 4:00am and 5:00am while the Danhonu II and Doka Mai Jama’a, attack happened at about 10:00pm. The Nation learnt that the gunmen first attacked Manini Village in Kuriga District of Chikun council, breaking into shops and carting away foodstuff and other valuables. They later moved into a nearby Komo community in the same local government and kidnapped one person. “Later at about 10:00pm, gunmen reportedly invaded Danhonu II and Doka Mai- Jama’a, all in Millennium City, also in the same Chikun Local Government. “At Danhonu II, a banker and his 11 year daughter were abducted while a security guard, was killed by the gunmen. “At Doka Jama’a, a few kilometres away from Danhono, a Village Head was kidnapped,” the source said. The source who spoke with our correspondent on condition of anonymity, added, “gunmen in large numbers invaded Manini village in Kuriga district between 4:00am and 5:00am on Monday. Police spokesman Mohammed Jalige said he was yet to be briefed on the incidents. In Benue State gunmen abducted a banker Mr. Ochogga Agbese in Agila,  Ado local Government Area , of the state. The Nation gathered that the incident occurred on Sunday at about 7pm while the victim was in his house. The victim at a new generation bank in Niger State and was said to be back home in Ado due to the lockdown before his abduction. Police spokesperson Kate Sewuese Anene said she was yet to get the report of the incident. In Abia State, a female presenter with Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria (FRCN) Chinenye Iwuoha was reportedly kidnapped by unknown gunmen. The incident happened on Tuesday near  Amakanma Estate in Umuahia South Local Government Area of the state, about 7pm.     