Both movies and casinos are a great source of entertainment in the modern world. They offer us an interesting and exciting experience after all the boring routines of life. This is the reason best movies and online casino guide are searched by a great number of people on the internet. 1- Casino Royale Casino Royale is one of the best spy films that you can watch in 2020. The film is the adaptation of Ian Fleming’s 1953 novel of the same name, and it was released in 2006 starring Daniel Craig, Eva Green, Mads Mikkelsen, and Jeffrey Wright as the main characters. The choice of Craig as James Bond in the movie initially drew controversy but this decision was greatly justified when the film received an overwhelmingly positive critical response with Craig’s acting drawing praises from everywhere. The movie begins with James Bond gaining his status as a 00 agent by killing Dryden. Bond is shown to be on an assignment to ruin the main antagonist Le Chiffre by beating him in a high-stakes poker game at the Casino Royale. The protagonist falls in love with Vesper Lynd who is assigned to help him in the mission by providing him the required money. Casino Royale became a huge commercial success with the film earning $606 million worldwide. It won two British Academy of Film and Television Arts Awards and was also nominated for eight BAFTA awards. 2- The Hangover You cannot get a better casino comedy than The Hangover which was directed and co-produced by Todd Phillips and was released in 2009. The film is about three friends (Phil, Stu, and Alan) who go to Las Vegas for Doug’s bachelor party. However, they find themselves in a strange situation the next day. After waking up with a memory gap, they notice that the groom is missing and a tiger is in their room. They set out to find the groom and go through crazy adventures in the process. As an audience, you will not be able to control your laughter by watching the ridiculous experiences of these characters. The movie perfectly illustrates the popular saying that what happens in Vegas, stays in Vegas. It was a huge commercial success and grossed over $467 million worldwide. It also bagged the Golden Globe Award and received numerous other accolades. 3- The Gambler The Gambler has shown Mark Wahlberg as an English literature teacher who cannot control himself from gambling. The main character gets himself into some big trouble due to his gambling addiction as he loses a Blackjack game and ends up owing a huge amount to some criminals. From there on, he desperately tries to find a way out of this trouble and pay his debts. The movie has done a very good job of showing the negative consequences of excessive gambling and how it can destroy someone’s life. 4- Rain Man Rain Man has starred Tom Cruise as the main character Charlie Babbit who is shown as a young, selfish businessman. He discovers that his father has left him almost nothing in the will and all his wealth has been bequeathed to his other son Raymond who is an autistic savant. Charlie takes his brother to Vegas and tries to use his mental powers to win big at the Blackjack table. The film was a big hit at the box office and garnered a huge $354.8 million. It also won four Oscars at the 61st Academy Awards.