First he has come like a thunderbolt from oblivion to our consciousness in the last 365 days defeating an incumbent Governor in an open direct primaries of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos state. Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu was sworn in on May 29th 2019 after defeating all his opponents in the Governorship election in Lagos State on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC). His first 8 months in office such tremendous accomplishments in areas of traffic and traffic management, transforming porthole infested roads to smooth motorable roads, improving the health facilities and training of health care personnel across the state. Mr. Sanwo-Olu came up with developmental pillars tagged “T.H.E.M.E.S” He has come to govern Lagos with a clear and clairvoyant vision together with determination, commitment and abundant physical energy. His banking and political experience has prepared him for this job. He has shown great desires and flexibility of faculty in implementing these programs. The inland waterways are being vigorously connected and improved upon to be maximally used as a mode of transportation in the coastal state. However, an extraordinary moment set in by March 2020 when the whole world was and still being ravaged by the Coronavirus(Covid-19). The disruptive and destructive Covid-19 brought human life to a temporary halt. Such extraordinary moment requires quality leadership, which Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu demonstrated and still demonstrates his positive responses and management of the pandemic would be talked about for a longtime. Never before have our lives depended on the action and inaction of the government, he has shown that he is a Governor with character. His position as the Governor of a state that is not only the major gateway to Nigeria but also the epicentre of the fight against the spread of the virus. He was proactive and leveraged on the experience, the state had on “EBOLA” outbreak in 2014. Nothing compares to a leader with a vision. He was prepared for an outbreak of epidemic but did not know the type, he therefore in choosing his Commissioner for Health he opted for a pathologist. He, in conjunction, with his commissioner, have become a sight to be proud of when briefing the press and the citizenship of Lagos state on their battles against the spread of the virus. This is just the beginning of this administration role of an “Incident Commander” against the spread of the disease putting some strategies in place that have largely helped in containing the spread. Lagosians like other people of the world will by Gods grace be back to normal life and live to appreciate the full potentials of this man for all seasons.  