 As Muslims prepare for Eid-el-Fitr celebration on Sunday, Kaduna State Police Command said it has put an elaborate plan in place to ensure strict compliance with the lockdown order in the State. It also said intensive security coverage has been mapped out to checkmate the activities of criminal elements during the Sallah celebration period throughout the state. Kaduna State Government had risen from its special meeting with notable Islamic scholars within the week to declare that, Muslims should observe the Eid prayers at home, as part of measures to contain spread of Coronavirus. A statement issued Saturday evening by the Command’s PPRO, ASP Mohammed Jalige said, both conventional and mobile policemen as well as undercover operatives have been deployed to man and monitor key/vulnerable points with a view to ensuring compliance with the lockdown and provide tight security across the state. According to the statement: “The Kaduna State Police Command wishes to inform members of the general public that, it has drawn out an elaborate operational strategies to ensure compliance of the total lockdown order impose by the state government to curb the spread of COVID-19 pandemic and intensive security coverage to checkmate the activities of criminal elements during EID-EL-FITRI period throughout the state.  “In this regards, the command has deployed both conventional and mobile policemen as well as undercover operatives to man and monitor key/vulnerable point with a view to ensure compliance with the lockdown and provide tight security across the state. “The Command once-again reassure the good people of Kaduna State of its readiness to promptly respond to distress calls and decisively deal with any person or group of persons who in any way attempt to violate the lockdown and social distancing orders during the festive period. “The Command reiterates its call on the citizens of Kaduna State to promptly report any suspicious movement/ object notice in your area to the nearest security formation or call the following numbers 07039675856, 0807591105. “The Commissioner of Police Kaduna State Command CP Umar M. Muri call on the good people of Kaduna state while celebrating the EID-EL-FITRI they should also adhere strictly to the preventive tips against Corona Virus.”