Suggestions to help minimise the disruption caused by the coronavirus pandemic have come from various quarters.  Some tend to give more weight to “easing hardship,” which is important, but not as important as protecting lives. Notably, the Anap Foundation COVID-19 Think Tank, in a statement signed by its chairman, Atedo Peterside, and vice chairman, Abubakar Siddique Mohammed, recommended lifting the nation-wide curfew that took effect from May 4, or limiting it to the six hours between 11pm and 5am.  The curfew is from 8pm to 6am. The 18-member think tank comprises private-sector professionals and clerics from Nigeria’s six geopolitical zones, the United States of America (USA) and Germany. More importantly, the organisation advised the federal and state governments to “lengthen business hours,” adding that “Businesses must enforce physical distancing of two metres between customers.” It supported “compulsory wearing of cloth face coverings in public places.” It is not clear to what extent the organisation wants an extension of business hours. Under the current restrictions, selected businesses and offices are allowed to open from 9am to 7pm provided they decontaminate workspaces and ensure that social distancing and hygiene measures are enforced. The concern about making life less difficult for people by introducing less stringent measures is understandable. However, proponents of easier conditions should understand that the tough measures are not necessarily anti-people. Indeed, the coronavirus crisis calls for caution in reviewing both lockdown and curfew across the country. It is noteworthy that the Federal Government had initially declared a lockdown in Lagos and Ogun states, as well as the federal capital, Abuja, which lasted four weeks. The gradual easing of the measures reflects necessary caution on the part of the authorities. In his speech announcing the easing of restrictions, President Muhammadu Buhari observed that the lockdown had caused economic difficulties. “No country can afford the full impact of a sustained lockdown while awaiting the development of vaccines or cures,” he said.  In a country where it is estimated that about 90% of the workforce is employed in the informal sector, the situation is indeed tough for many people whose livelihoods have been affected by the coronavirus restrictions. However, the country cannot afford to remove the restrictions at this time. That would amount to throwing caution to the wind.  Figures released by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) show an escalation of the pandemic.  “Till date, 8,344 cases have been confirmed, 2,385 cases have been discharged and 249 deaths have been recorded in 34 states and the Federal Capital Territory,” the NCDC said on May 26.  It added that 276 new confirmed cases in 15 states, and 16 deaths, were recorded in the country on that day. The continued rise in COVID-19 cases recorded is disturbing.  Significantly, the Nigerian Union of Allied Health Professionals (NUAHP) appealed to the President to reconsider the phased relaxation of the lockdown in view of the continued increase in confirmed cases of the disease. “As a union, with members as frontline workers, we cannot but caution the federal and affected state governments, to continue with the lockdown, until adequate measures have been taken to contain it,” the group stressed in a statement. The union also highlighted “the deficit of health professionals, medical materials and facilities” in the country,   which would make it difficult “to handle whatever upsurge that may arise, due to the high incidences, especially the community transmission that is being presently witnessed, in some parts of the country.” The livelihood perspective and the survival perspective present a delicate situation.  It is clear that only survivors can think of livelihood, although livelihood is important for survival. The situation requires a balancing act that will address livelihood concerns without reducing focus on the greater issue of survival.  This is a critical challenge that the federal and state governments must deal with.