Members of the Oyo House of Assembly on Tuesday passed a vote of confidence on Governor Seyi Makinde and his deputy, Rauf Olaniyan. This was despite the purported impeachment moves against the Deputy by loyalists of Makinde. The House also moved to rename the Ibarapa Polytechnic, Eruwa after an Eruwa-born late industrialist and business mogul, Adeseun Ogundoyin. The late Ogundoyin is father of Speaker of the Ninth Assembly, Adebo Ogundoyin. The lawmakers, who denied media reports linking them with plans to work with some power brokers in the state in an alleged plot to unseat the Deputy Governor, assured the House firmly believes in the leadership style and capabilities of Governor Makinde and his deputy. But the lawmakers did not say same on the leadership of the House despite rumours and reports of no love lost. The House made the clarification while deliberating on a motion moved by the lawmaker representing Lagelu state constituency, Mr Akintunde Olajide and seconded by Mr Isiaka Kazeem (Oyo East/Atiba). Mr Adeola Bamidele (Iseyin/Itesiwaju), the Majority Leader, Mr Sanjo Adedoyin and the Minority Leader, Asimiyu Alarape noted the lawmakers are in agreement with the executive arm led by Makinde and his deputy, Olaniyan. Alarape, while supporting the vote of confidence on Makinde, said there is the need for the lawmakers to speak out their immense support to the administration of the governor and his deputy, adding that it is high time all the lawmakers made public their support for the Makinde government, irrespective of political parties. Speaker Ogundoyin also denied insinuations that the lawmakers were working with a top government official and held various meetings all in the bid to impeach the deputy governor. Deliberating on the change of nomenclature, the lawmakers all acknowledged the numerous support and roles played by late Ogundoyin in the development of the former Eruwa campus of The Polytechnic Ibadan, Eruwa and the state as a whole during his lifetime.