The Federal Government has said it will investigate all genuine efforts to find homegrown solutions to the coronavirus pandemic. It said the potency of hydroxychloroquine, chloroquine and other combinations to cure COVID -19 patients will be subjected to review by health experts. The World Health Organisation, on Monday announced the suspension of the use of chloroquine treatment trial following expert advice. The government also said that it has sent the samples of the Madagascan native formulation for the treatment of COVID-19, to the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control for testing. Samples of the herb, the government said, would also be sent to the National Institute for Pharmaceutical Research and Development (NIPRD) and Nigeria Institute for Medical Research. Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire disclosed during the daily briefing of the presidential task force on COVID-19 on Thursday. The drug was delivered to President Muhammadu Buhari by his Guinea Bussau counterpart, Umarro Embalo, over two weeks ago at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Dr. Ehanire said: “Global efforts to find a cure for COVID-19, in which Nigeria is participating in the WHO solidarity trial, will be reviewed by our panel of experts, as WHO suspended the trial, due to alarm raised by a Medical journal, on the safety of some drugs being tried, like hydroxychloroquine, chloroquine and their combinations. “Proposals for trial of local remedies for the disease have been sent to the relevant research and testing agencies for scientific evaluation. The Madagascar herbs have been received at the Ministry of Health, and were found to consist of two varieties; one labeled to be for prevention and the other for treatment. “The herbs have been transferred to the Federal Ministry of Health and the ministry has identified with National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control which has collected sample and then NPRID, which is going to collect samples and the Nigeria Institute for Medical Research in Lagos which will also receive samples. “And we are going to send samples to the federal ministry of science of technology. We have written them to expect samples because they also have agencies that conduct research on phytomedicine so that across the board we would have done what the president had directed that the herbs be evaluated scientifically. “We are going to have this evaluation done across the board so that we can get the best result out of it and know what the value is before they are given to Nigerians. “Government will investigate all genuine efforts to find homegrown solutions to the pandemic.” He said proposals for trial of local remedies for the disease have been sent to the relevant research and testing agencies for scientific evaluation. The Chairman of the PTF and Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, said on Wednesday that the government was screening three local solutions as a potential treatment for the highly dangerous pandemic. He had said: “As a measure of the importance attached to research and development of local capacity for finding a cure to the Covid -19, the Federal Ministry of Health held a virtual meeting with a number of researchers and scientists with claims to cure for Covid -19. “Out of the numerous claimants, three were found to deserve further investigation and have been forwarded to the relevant authorities for appropriate review.” The minister said that prevention remained the best approach until a cure or vaccine for the virus is found. “Until a cure or vaccine is found, prevention is still the best approach to controlling community spread of the virus. We must strengthen the social measures that compensate for the risks to be expected if and when restrictions are further lifted,” the minister added.