  Nigerian -based coalition of partners and support oriented digital initiative, Givefood.ng, has lunched an initiative aimed at providing one millions meals weekly to impoverished communities. The initiative is to mitigate socio-economic impacts of coronavirus lockdown. The coalition founder Kola Masha, CEO of Babban Gona, said: “We have been inspired by the collective willingness we have seen amongst Nigerians to help their fellow citizens at a critical time. “When we have millions of vulnerable people that need help, we cannot rely on the contributions or interventions of others, we must all come together to support them. “This is the vision for Givefood.ng; for ordinary Nigerians to have access to a platform that can safely and securely deliver assistance to those that need it. “We believe that with the partners we have been able to bring together, the civic spirit we have seen and the support we have received from Nigeria’s private sector, we can quickly achieve a system that provides one million meals for Nigerians each week. Anyone who wants to give food can do so by simply visiting Givefood.ng today,” he added.  Collectively, the partners will provide a technology-enabled logistics solution to help those who want to direct their resources to the most vulnerable while ensuring availability of food packs at easily accessible points for those that need them. Although the food packs may vary from location to location due to availability, a typical food pack is valued at N2000. Beneficiaries will receive A 2kg swallow pack, 1 kg pasta pack, a 500g sugar pack, 7 – 9 packets of 70g instant noodles, 4 packets of 70g tomato paste, and soap. The Givefood.ng chain is made up of over 100 food collection points borne out of partnerships with various supermarket chains. The Givefood.ng partners include Babban Gona and Facebook, in technology; Shoprite, Spar, Addide, FoodCo, Grocery Bazaar, Justrite, Hubmart, Hartleys, Trimart and Prince Ebeano, in distribution; Dufil, Prima Foods (Indomie), Flour Mills of Nigeria and UAC in FMCG; and Lagos State Government, Africa Practice, Dalberg, FCMB, Trace TV and Whitten & Roy Partnership in outreach.