MOVES by the Federal Government to overturn the $9.6 billion judgment debt awarded against it in favour of Process and Industrial Development Limited (P&ID) by a United Kingdom (UK) court have recorded more progress. The appeal got positive feedback with a United States (U.S.) court granting Nigeria’s permission to request documents from VR Capital Group Ltd, the part owner of a company that received a $9.6 billion arbitration award the government is trying to overturn. U.S. District Judge Paul Engelmayer ordered in New York that Nigeria can subpoena information from London-based hedge fund VR Capital, four subsidiaries and three of its directors. The Federal Government had last month, sought documents from 10 banks, including Citigroup  and JPMorgan Chase & Co., in a bid to overturn the judgment related to a business deal that the country contends is shrouded in allegations of corruption. Nigeria asked a federal court in New York for permission to subpoena information about transactions involving government officials, including a former president. The politicians were in office when the state signed a contract with P&ID, and later became involved in a costly dispute with the company. But London-based iNHouse Communications, representing P&ID, said: “Nigeria’s efforts to seek information on a crime that never occurred from a party that was never involved with P&ID until years after the alleged events is prima facie evidence that it has no case at all. The claim that P&ID deliberately concealed documents by destroying them is totally false.” The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) plans to use the data in its probe of British Virgin Islands-registered P&ID and allegedly corrupt government officials. A Cayman Islands-registered unit of VR Capital acquired a 25 per cent interest in P&ID about two years ago and will have conducted due diligence on the firm that is “highly relevant” to the ongoing investigation, according to a court filing submitted by Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice Abubakar Malami on May 12. Bloomberg report said the successful court application is part of Nigeria’s efforts to show that a 2010 gas-supply contract with P&ID was a sham designed to fail by the company and government officials. P&ID denies any wrongdoing, saying that Nigeria invented the allegations to evade its legal obligations.