By Mike Odiegwu, Port Harcourt  Prominent Ijaw leaders have mounted pressure on former Bayelsa Governor Seriake Dickson to join the race for the Bayelsa West Senatorial bye-election. Over 15 famous leaders, who once occupied top positions in Ijaw struggle such as Dr. Felix Tuodolo, Asari- Dokubo, Frank Omare, Udengs Eradiri, Frank Omare, Alfred Kemepado, Mr Oyinfie Jonjon among others met and said only Dickson possessed the qualities to speak for the Ijaw at the Senate. The leaders, in a communique issued after their meeting, said Dickson’s contributions to the advancement of Ijaw development distinguished him from others. They observed that as a member representing the Sagbama/ Ekeremor Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives for five years and governor of Bayelsa for eight years, Dickson remained a mastery of Ijaw affairs. They described the former governor as a politician with will to muster appeal from his large network of political friendship to drive the cardinal objectives of the Ijaw nation at the Senate. The leaders said Dickson ran a government which saw the inclusion of Ijaws in Ondo, Delta, Rivers and Akwa- Ibom in governance without any segregation. They said the former governor he became the voice in the call for restructuring of the Nigerian state, true federalism and devolution of power. The leaders said the former governor’s made respected senior citizens of Nigeria to rally round him as a leader of trust because of his national progressive cause. They urged the people of Sagbama and Ekeremor to see the candidature of Dickson beyond party lines but a further call to duty in the service of the Ijaw project. According to them: “That in view of the above mentioned realities, it is hereby resolved that all patriotic sons and daughters of Ijaw Nation should persuade and support the His Excellency, Hon. H.S Dickson who has been a pillar of support to all Ijaw people irrespective of our artificial boundaries. “And that this decision is unbiased and springs from the above expectations and his overwhelming performance as a former member of the House of Representatives for five years and a Governor who served our people for eight years which has given him the much needed requisite experience. “That we further call on all sons and daughters of Ekeremor local Government to respect our historical understanding of rotation in the Senatorial district and allow their Sagbama kith and kin to produce the Senator to complete the remaining term of Senator Lawrence Ewhrudjakpor to further cement this political decision for unity, cohesion and progressive politics. “We therefore call on His Excellency, Hon. HSD to contest the senatorial election while appealing to all Ijaw patriots to stand with His Excellency Hon Seriake Dickson and elect him to the senate to continue to fly the Ijaw flag.”