 An Islamic scholar, Prof. AbdulRazzak Alaro, has admonished Muslims to beware of hypocrites. According to him, there are some hypocrites who knows the right thing but still tries to criticise those that are doing the right thing. “These people are confused human beings and will try all things possible to mislead others, but the well knowledgeable Muslims will not fall for their evil plan. “There is no reason to be confused, once you are sure of your religion, and you continue to seek for more knowledge from good scholars that knows the Qur’an and Sunnah, there will be no problem,” he said. Alaro gave the advice on Tuesday while delivering an online Ramadan lecture. He urged Muslims to seek for more knowledge about Islam and know the right way of worshipping Almighty Allah, so as not to be misled. Muslims, he said, should be well knowledgeable about their religion and be educated enough to understand and explain the religion amidst intimidation. The scholar said that there was no need for Muslims to be shy, rather they should learn more about the religion, as it teaches all human beings how to live a noble life.  “Even in the western countries, Islam is known as the fastest growing religion, and many people around the world knows about the religion,” he said. Alaro said Muslims should seek for knowledge about what they did not understand, through the holy Qur’an and Sunnah (way of life of prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him). “Muslims should know about their religion and be ready to answer any question about Islam anywhere they are. There is no harm in asking questions, no matter your age, try and seek for more knowledge. “It is better to seek for knowledge and listen to correction from those who know, than to be humiliated and end up been confused by others,” Alaro said. The scholar said that Islam is not about personal ideas or belief, rather it is the rules and regulations stated in the Qur’an and Sunnah of the prophet. “All the things that Almighty Allah ask us to do and all the prohibited things mentioned in the Qur’an is for our own good, and whoever refused will face the consequence, even before the judgment day. “Just like the law of karma, whatever people do is what will be done on them, no matter its secrecy or how long,” he said. 