Inter Milan new signing Victor Moses evaluates his reconnection with manager Antonio Conte in Milan, the Italian city he fell in love with at first sight. He shares his reunion story with TAIWO ALIMI. It’s an honour to link up once again with an important figure in my career. He is my mentor and friend,’ Inter Milan new signing, Nigerian player Victor Moses described manager Antonio Conte, when pressed about his relationship with the Italian who handled Chelsea and won the league title in 2017. Moses was in the Conte team that year and it was the Chelsea gaffer that redefined his attacking position to wingback position while playing that glorious season. Following a short stint with Turkish side Fernerbahce, Moses announced his reunion with Conte on a loan transfer that landed him in Milan in January. In a separate interview on Inter TV, the former Super Eagles winger further explained his feelings on connecting back with his benefactor. “Having the opportunity to work with the coach again is something I’m really happy about. I’ve spoken to him and he’s already explained the Club’s project to me. I want to be part of it, I’m happy to be here. I’ll give my all and want to help the team. There’s a lot of quality here, I want to make my contribution out on the pitch and enjoy myself. That’s the most important thing.” The 29-year-old wideman is teaming up with Conte once more after the pair worked together at Chelsea. Though, Moses only played three matches before the Covid-19 pandemic lockdown took effect, he is optimistic that he would have a great time playing in the lovely Milan city. In fact, the first thing he fell in love with, he said, is the ancient city housing another top club-side, FC Milan. He added: “For me to be here and be an Inter player. I’d like to thank everyone for the welcome I’ve been given, I can’t wait to be back on the pitch of play. It seems like a nice city, I’ve liked what I’ve seen up to now. I think I’ll enjoy it here and we’ll have a great future together. I have positive feelings. “I’m going to need time to find my feet but I want to help the team win as many games as possible. We’ll do all that we can to achieve our objectives and make our fans proud.” Before Milan This is the second time Conte would be giving the Nigerian back his playing life. At Chelsea, Moses was frozen out for three seasons only for Conte to come and recalled him back into the first team. He had spent three successive loan spells at Liverpool, Stoke City and West Ham United. The former Italian boss revived his career converting him into a wing back and the Nigerian played key role in the team’s winning the Premier League title in 2017 season and the FA Cup the 2018 season. On Conte’s command, Moses played his first game for Chelsea in three years in August, 2016. In the same month he got a starting shirt and scored his first Chelsea goal. Conte decided to convert him to wingback some months later and that helped stabilise the team and earned the Nigerian more playing time as he shunned up 40 games in all competition that season. He also scored four goals. The departure of the Italian, once again spelled doom for Moses, who was instantly loaned out to Fenerbahce in 2019. The 18 month loan deal did end well for Moses until an unhappy Moses was rescued by Conte, who just signed for Inter Milan. The six-month loan deal with a buy-out clause, according to Moses, is great as far as he’s playing for a manager that believes in him. Moses made Inter Milan debut on January 29, coming in as a second hand substitute for Antonio Candreva and made his league debut some days after, in a 2-0 win at Udinese. He further reiterated the import of the gaffer in his game and life: “I have played under a lot of managers and I’ve loved every single one of them. The most important one was Antonio Conte. “At Chelsea he just came in and changed everything. He is an amazing man; he totally changed my game to be honest. He gave me that fighting spirit to believe in myself and to enjoy my football same time. ”And then when he came that first season, we won the league, the following season we won the FA Cup. ”It was an amazing season for me under Antonio Conte and I’ll always respect him for that, he’s an amazing man. “I’ve never played that (wing-back) position before. When the manager came in, he talked me through it and then put me there. “It was good to have the manager’s support, and he backed me and gave me the confidence to go out there and express myself. So I just wanted to go out there to play for him, the fans and the football club. I didn’t let him down.” So far, Moses career honours, especially at club level have come under Conte. He won the Premiership title in 2016-17 season and followed up with the FA Cup win the following season. In the previous year, Chelsea also finished runner-up in the FA Cup. Asked how his game is kicking back at Inter Milan, he said. “I’ve come to realise that you play better under a coach that believes in you and that is what Conte has done for me. I’ve played three matches and it’s been wonderful. I feel better already. Before the lock down I’ve played three games. I started the match away to Udinese and we won 2-0. It is good for the team. We are playing for the good of the team.” One match that, however, touched him was Coppa Italia semifinal loss to Napoli. Inter Milan had staged a comeback to beat AC Milan 4-2 in a local derby Sunday before the game, only to lose steam and lose 1-0 in the Coppa Italia. In mid-February, Inter came from two goals down to win the Milan derby 4-2 and visibly struggled to play with the same intensity in the match against the Napoli at San Siro as they lost 1-0. “We used up a lot of physical and mental energy on Sunday but this cannot be an excuse. We are very disappointed with this defeat, but we must not lose heart. We must win in the return leg.” The second leg will now be played at the resumption of Italian football following the lockdown. The experienced Nigerian, though, admitted that it was not easy adapting to the rugged and highly tactical Italian football. “It is not easy, it is very tactical. It is important for me to put myself at the service of the team and my teammates but the manager has been of tremendous help,” he explained. “He tells me what to do and I try to remember and follow most of his instructions. He is one of the best managers in the world. He played football himself and he has a lot of passion. I am very happy to work with him again.” With the Italian season tentatively resuming on June 13, Moses looks forward to a great season and a permanent deal with Inter Milan. Before the lockdown, Inter occupy the third position on Serie A table with 54 points. Juventus are on top with 63 points while Lazio are in second spot with 62 points.