 BY withdrawing the policemen protecting the Chairman, Five Star Group, Emeka Okonkwo aka E-Money, Inspector-General of Police (IG) Mohammed Adamu drew public attention to a perennial problem. Who should have police escort?  A top police officer was quoted as saying:  ”We received a signal from the Force headquarters…that the police detail of music executive, E-Money, be immediately withdrawn and an investigation into the man be launched. “The IG was surprised that policemen were attached to him in the first place and were being used like domestic servants, carrying umbrellas, opening doors, and doing menial jobs for him.” Who approved E-Money’s police escort? What were the considerations?  What were the conditions?  E-Money’s flaunted affluence suggests that those involved in the security arrangement must have been well paid. There is no doubt that money talks, which is why E-Money’s police protectors allegedly went beyond providing protection. It is understandable that the IG was embarrassed.  It’s a long story. In March 2018, the then IG Ibrahim Idris had ordered immediate withdrawal of all police orderlies attached to private individuals and companies. His order was not new.  His predecessors had given similar orders. A report presented the repetitive sequence:  ”In 2009, Ogbonna Onovo, IGP from 2009-2010, ordered immediate withdrawal of all orderlies attached to private individuals. However, soon after the directive was issued, state commissioners began identifying some private individuals that would be exempted from the policy. “In October 2010, about a month after succeeding Mr. Onovo, Inspector-General Hafiz Ringim called for immediate removal of personnel attached to private individuals, an order that failed to hold water. “In February 2012, Mr. Ringim’s successor, Mohammed Abubakar, also issued his own directive, saying it was time to bring professionalism, efficiency and integrity to police operations.” The report continued: “Mr. Idris’ immediate predecessor, Solomon Arase, also ordered the withdrawal of all officers from private individuals a few weeks before he left office. Like his predecessors, Mr. Arase also complained that the police could not afford to attach officers to private individuals when there are more pressing security challenges across the country. “The demand for officers to be withdrawn from private use has come from successive inspectors-general almost as often as the directive for officers to stop mounting roadblocks in the country.” E-Money is not alone in using money to get police protection, and allegedly using his police protectors “like domestic servants.”  The police need to get their act together.  