The Nigeria Agricultural Quarantine Service, (NAQS), has announced that it will soon commence export of agricultural produce. The Director General, NAQS, Dr. Vincent Isegbe made this known in a statement signed by the Head, Media, Communications and Strategies, NAQS, Dr Gozie Nwodo. Isegbe noted that the Federal Government has authorized the Agency to fully resume its export certification duties at all ports immediately. According to him, ”The Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation has also issued a consequential whole-of-government directive instructing Ministries, Departments and Agencies as well state governments to cooperate with NAQS to enable a well choreographed restoration of export traffic for the benefit of all Nigerians.” The Director General also disclosed that the federal government granted the Agency authorization to make agro-export kinetic again because of the manifest need to free all functions related to agricultural export on both the public and private sectors side from any encumbrance. He revealed that the Nigeria Customs Service, Nigerian Aviation Handling Company PLC (NAHCO Aviance), Skyway Aviation Handling Company (SAHCO), Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), the Federal Road Safety Commission, Vehicle Inspection Office, the Nigerian Police and other security agencies are now under obligation to work in concert with NAQS and stakeholders to reanimate agricultural export. Dr. Isegbe further noted that producer and transit state governments were expected to grant the right to free passage to the consignments along efficient corridors that have been mapped by NAQS under a best logistics-support arrangement. He however called on all relevant entities in the agricultural export environment to play their respective parts to foster the return of business to normal pace. “The Agency will balance the consideration of professional protocols and adherence to all recommended COVID-19 safety precautions in the discharge of its statutory mandate of inspection and certification of agricultural products,” Dr. Isegbe assured.