Rivers United are confident that they can challenge for the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) title with support from their front-of-shirt partner, Eunisell. “We are not hoping for anything less because we also want to be champions but all of that will be determined on the pitch,” explained Rivers United general manager Okey Kpalukwu. “Although we are praying to win the league, we will also put in our efforts and do what is necessary to make it easier for us to actualize our ambition.” He also spoke on their thriving partnership with Eunisell even as he thanked the sponsor for backing the club through thick and thin:”Our partnership with Eunisell is one of a kind; this is something most clubs are looking forward to having and that is why we must commend Eunisell for this partnership they have kept over the years with us. “They have never failed us and they have always shown a huge presence. This has given the players some kind of boost as well. “The relationship has been a balanced one since Rivers United played in the continent in the past with Eunisell as the front-of-the-shirt sponsor and registered Eunisell as one of our shirt sponsors with CAF which helped us use our branded jerseys on the continent.  “Now the Rivers people are aware of Eunisell’s contribution to the club which has saved us costs. We are grateful to them,” Kpalukwu said. Similarly, Captain of the club, Festus Austine, further reiterated their strong desire to win the title and would rather focus on the challenge instead of worry about the other contenders :”The target is to win the trophy this season. “We (the players) have a (WhatsApp) platform where we regularly remind ourselves what we want to achieve this season.” With 13 match weeks to go, Rivers United are currently in second place with 45 points after 25 matches and Eunisell Limited Group Managing Director, Chika Ikenga, has also urged the  coach Stanley Eguma-led side  to stay within touching distance of the title race. “So far, Rivers United have done very well and I urge everyone at the club to stay within the guidelines of the health authorities, as we look forward to the league restarting,” said Ikenga.