Driving is a very complex task, a unique multi-tasking job. The main responsibility of a driver is safety. Every passenger or vehicle occupant relies on the driver to get them to their destinations safely. Drivers, therefore, must show responsibility towards their vehicle Occupants and other road users. The driver has the responsibility of duty of care, taking every necessary steps to ensure the safety of his vehicle occupants and other road users. Drivers (and Riders) have the responsibility to hold valid driver licence for the category of vehicles they drive. It is however, very sad that a very high percentage of drivers and riders in Nigeria have no licence while a sizeable number also drive with expired licence. Over 70 percent did not attend any driving school to acquire the requisite theory and practical training. So many drivers have not been attending on – the – job professional training programme to boost their capability in. Vehicle technology, mental and physical fitness of drivers and road traffic regulations are dynamic. Drivers and diders must be up to date through regular re – training (annually or biennially). Drivers have the responsibility to understand and obey all traffic signs, signals, markings and other regulations. Research has, however, revealed that over 70 percent of drivers and riders in Nigeria don’t know the meaning of most of the traffic signs. A high percentage of road users also do not obey the traffic signs, traffic light and other rules thereby fuelling the rate of road traffic crashes in the country. It is the driver’s responsibility to notify the relevant authorities if he or she has developed any serious illness or disability that could affect his or her fitness to drive without hiding any information. It is the responsibility of the driver to monitor the road worthiness of the vehicle he drives, updating of the vehicle documents, and proper handling of the vehicle. The way a driver handles the vehicle also determines the road worthiness and life span of the vehicle. Drivers must drive the vehicles in a manner that’s sympathetic to the road environment (including fuel – efficient driving or ecosafe driving techniques). Drivers are to a large extent responsible for journey and route planning for safety and security. There are, however, reports that their principals often interfere sometimes abruptly. It is advisable that all employers of drivers should see them as professionals and give them the free hand to drive as trained. The advice of drivers should not be thrown away without consideration. A wise man can learn from a fool not to talk of professionals operating in their fields of endeavours. Drivers must regularly apply professional driving techniques (planning, perception and anticipation skills) to ensure safety in all situations. Drivers have responsibility towards other road users. Human error is the main cause of most road traffic crashes. Drivers must play very proactive role in making sure road accidents don’t happen. When you drive properly, you and your passengers or vehicle occupants will arrive safely at your destinations. On the other hand, if you drive carelessly or dangerously, you risk the safety of yourself, passengers and other road users. Be responsible for driving your vehicle safely and sensibly at all times and in all situations.