 In the next few days, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) will release results of men and women who contracted the Coronavirus this week through community spread in Lagos and Abuja, our Federal Capital Territory. You need to see what has been happening on our streets in the last five days to expect a surge in COVID-19 cases. The excitement to use the licence granted us to kill ourselves is unprecedented! When the ropes with which we were tied were loosened on Monday, we invaded the roads with glee. We were like chickens suddenly let off the cage. For six weeks, our televisions were our companions, our books our friends and our kids got more than their fair share of our attention. Many of us got frustrated to the extent that we started singing the praises of teachers who take the kids off us for several hours each day. We missed our offices, we missed hanging out with friends, we missed the drinks and dance at the nightclubs, and we missed life! We were joyous to be let out of the jails that our homes looked like for the six weeks we were locked in. Before 6 a.m. last Monday, the Third Mainland Bridge must have noticed something its body was no longer used to. For six weeks, the Bridge must have wondered what was happening; it certainly must have wondered too what changed again last Monday when row and row of cars queued on it struggling to find their way to Lagos Island, Victoria Island and Lekki Peninsula. The environment too must have wondered what was going on. For six weeks, fumes from exhaust were on break; the air smelt fresh. Then from Monday, everywhere became choked once more. Our streets, if they have eyes, must have noticed strange creatures parading left, right and centre. Many of them look like ace Afrobeat musician Lagbaja. Their masks are from different tailors and the ways they wear them range from the ridiculous to the incredible. Clearly, many of the mask and the ways they are worn cannot protect us against the Coronavirus, the enemy that kept us home for six weeks. With these strange-looking masks, we have been visiting banks, offices, pubs, restaurants and what have you. It is good we are wearing masks; though many of what we wear as masks are deceitful, social distancing is one problem we have found difficult to practise. From buses to banks to our streets and others, we crowd one another and rely on our ridiculous masks to save us from being infected. Danfo drivers ordered by governments to carry only 60 per cent of their buses’ capacity are not obeying the law. Keke NAPEP drivers who are obeying the social distancing rule are charging more to ensure there are no losses, which mean people who were either not paid April salaries or had their salaries slashed have to pay more to get to work.  Despite the closure of boundaries, an open truck with cows and 40 human-beings was intercepted on Monday trying to enter Lagos from Zamfara State. Of course, no social distancing or any hygiene routine could have been observed by these men who appear to believe ‘babu Corona’ and are intent on exercising their rights to kill themselves. History has a lot of lessons for us, especially on the relaxation of lockdowns during pandemics. In 1720, there was the Great Plague of Marseille, which killed 100,000 people. The then Deputy Mayor of Marseille was afraid for the city’s economy and lifted the lockdown. Days later, people began to drop dead. So bad was it that there were no more graves to bury the dead. Streets were decorated with bodies awaiting burial. Even the wall built to stop Marseille from infecting the rest of the country could work no magic; Marseille infected neighbouring cities and 50,000 more people died. The popular Spanish Flu of 1918 also has lessons for us about the relaxation of lockdowns. The first lesson relates to Philadelphia. The state wanted to hold a parade to cheer soldiers who were at the war front during World War I. Health authorities warned against it, but the leadership of the state ignored the warning and allowed the parade to hold. Days later, hospitals were overwhelmed with no space to accommodate people who were dying of the pandemic. Like Philadelphia, San Francisco also found itself in a big mess for lifting the restrictions. The flu rebounded some three weeks after the restrictions on hotels, theatres and others were lifted, and it led to a longer outbreak than the first one. Over 3,000 residents died in the fall of 1918 and the winter of 1919. Relaxations of lockdowns have only worked when all the preventive measures are obeyed. I dare say only a few of us are obeying the measures. From Oshodi in Lagos to Sabongari in Kano and other crowded cities in the country, many are carrying on as if it is business as usual. The masks we wear are not properly won; the distance we give when we choose to is not up to the recommendation, and sanitising our hands is a task we take with levity. We must know that wearing a mask is not a substitute for hand-washing because if we touch virus-contaminated surfaces and touch our faces, we can get the infection. Those measures recommended are complementary. One cannot work without the other. In the beginning, we thought Coronavirus was a joke when it took root in China. Even when Italy, Singapore and others started recording fatalities, we were still in denial; even Almighty America did not think much of it. By the time our eyes became open, the Kabah was empty, the ever-busy Times Square was deserted and the beaches in Miami were roaring with no one to dash in and out of them. The Pope has had to be avoiding the crowd and the Umrah regularly performed by Muslims is on hold and Hajj is off. The Olympics are cancelled. The oil price has crashed to an all-time low. Countries remain on lockdown. Airlines have had to cancel thousands of flights. Recovering post-Coronavirus will be a Herculean task. Our eyes eventually became open to the evil of the virus but another virus named hunger has blinded millions and made them automatic members of the ‘babu corona’ movement. Prioritising hunger virus over Coronavirus seems like what T.S. Eliot described as the greatest treason in ‘Murder in the Cathedral’. “The greatest treason: to do the right thing for the wrong reason,” Eliot wrote. My final take: We started writing our examination last Monday and, from my observations so far, we have not done well; it will be a miracle if the results show otherwise. I wish so much that our exercise of the permission to kill ourselves in the name of the lifting of restrictions will meet with some obstacles and we will live rather than leave!