A leader of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo South Senatorial District, Dickson Imasogie, has given an assurance that the governorship candidate of the main opposition party in the state will emerge victorious on September 19 this year. He stated this during an interactive session with reporters, in Benin, the state capital. Imasogie maintained that the standard bearer of PDP would be ready to slug it out with the governorship candidate of the “crises-ridden” All Progressives Congress (APC). He noted that with the congresses of PDP at the ward, local government and state levels concluded, the party was on the right path to produce the next governor of Edo state. While acknowledging the recent loss of some PDP members to the governing APC, the PDP chieftain still expressed optimism that the opposition party was at the verge of harvesting a greater number of decampees from the APC. He said: “The PDP remains virile, potent and optimistic ahead of the governorship election in Edo State. Our aspirants have been very visible since indicating their genuine interests. With the party’s congresses done, the PDP is getting ready for the governorship primaries that will produce the candidate of the party. “Since PDP leaders have adopted the no-zoning formula to choose party officials and the governorship candidate, aspirants will subject themselves to canvassing for support from everybody in the three senatorial districts of Edo State. Although, the COVID-19 pandemic has brought a lull to the comprehensive campaign efforts. “With the emergence of the state’s Chairman of PDP, Dr. Tony Aziegbemi, from Edo Central Senatorial District, political permutations favour the Edo South Senatorial District to produce the governorship candidate of the party. So, the political battleground is Edo South Senatorial District.” Imasogie also enjoined PDP leaders and members in Edo state to remain firm and loyal to the party, noting that the chances of the PDP’s candidate emerging victorious during the governorship election were very bright.