 House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila said on Monday that the House will monitor the implementation of the recent loan obtained from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) by the government and ensure it is used for what it is meant for. Gbajabiamila, who spoke at a meeting with leaders of some Civil Society Organisations, said that the second economic stimulus bill being packaged by the House was ready for presentation. He said the National Assembly would monitor the disbursement and utilisation of the loan recently received from the IMF by the Federal Government and ensure that it was utilised for the purpose it was obtained. The Speaker said that the House would consider any issue relating to Covid -19 as an emergency and would attend to it. He said the stimulus bill, which is awaiting concurrence from the Senate, is meant to give 50 per cent tax rebate to employers of labour who keep their workers throughout the period of Covid- 19. He said it was commendable that the Executive arm of the government decided to adopt some provisions of the stimulus bill, which they are implementing. Gbajabiamila said all over the world, economic stimulus is the work of the Legislature because any economic stimulus requires that backing of the law, adding: “I have made this clear to the Minister of Finance. Currently, the bill is before the Senate and we will continue to engage them to ensure that it is passed into law. “A second Economic Stimulus bill is in the making already in the House. The second bill will be more far reaching than the first one. The United States of America is considering the fourth stimulus bill. The House is looking at how best to respond to post Covid-19.” He said further that the House was reviewing its legislative agenda in line with current realities, noting:  “We are reworking our legislative agenda. When we put the agenda in place, we did not envisage the current happenings. We presumed that it would be business as usual. “Now, we are reworking it and hopefully, it will be ready in the next two weeks and will be launched”. The Speaker said the Police Reform Act is likely to be passed within the next two weeks, as the report on the bill is ready for consideration by the House and will be tabled for discussion at its sitting soon.  He said the House was working on codifying the Nigeria Social Investment Programme (NSIP) by giving it legal backing, making it practicable as it is done in other countries. He said that the current form of the social investment programme was open to abuse. The Speaker said the House wants to ensure that the NSIP is embedded in a law. “Within the next two weeks, the law on that will be out. The law will ensure that it covers more people and many parts of the country.” Speaking on the controversy surrounding the infectious disease bill and the decision of the House to subject it to public hearing, Gbajabiamila said the House took note of all comments by Nigerians, some of which he noted were political, while others were as a result of genuine concern by Nigerians. He said the House will be transparent in the handling of the bill and will conduct a public hearing within the next few weeks to gather input from Nigerians, adding that while taking note of the social distance protocol, the House will organise a two-day public hearing, while those who will not be able to attend will be required to send in their contributions. He said that an aggregate of the opinion of Nigerians generated from the public hearing would be passed into law by the House, adding that the bill was brought to the House in the best interest of Nigerians. 