Osun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola has inaugurated 160-bed isolation centre to combat the spread of Coronavirus. The state also has another 20-room single bed isolation centre, giving the Mercyland facility a 180-bed isolation capacity. The governor said, the Coalition Against COVID-19 (CA-COVID) renovated the health facility and donated equipment and consumables for 100 beds to which the state government added 60 beds. He held that the facility would serve as an addition to the government’s other initiatives in containing the spread of the rampaging virus. His words: “Our administration had swiftly adopted creative and proactive methods to manage the pandemic as it had dedicated funds, human resources and indeed focused resolve to beat the virus and end the menace.  “We renovated and equipped three other isolation centres which include, 130-bed facility in Ejigbo; 12-bed capacity in Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, a 20-bed isolation centre and 8-bed Intensive Care Unit at State Specialist Hospital, Asubiaro, Osogbo, making 342-isolation beds and 8 ICU-bed facilities in the state.” He added that the state has dedicated personnel doing contact tracing, testing of contacts, isolation and care of patients for quality treatment. Oyetola commended the Coalition Against COVID-19 for being supportive to the state in its efforts to eliminate the pandemic, the Governor opined that “complementing government’s efforts at ensuring the safety and security of the people is the highest duty that a corporate entity, group or individual can provide, and it is also the greatest measure of the integrity of these entities and their hearts for the people.” He said; “I would like to extend deep gratitude to CACOVID for their generosity, sense of duty and love for the people of the State of Osun at this challenging period. With corporate citizens like CACOVID on our side, we are confident as a government that we will win this virulent war.” Earlier in his remarks, the COVID-19 Coordinator for Oyo and Osun states, Mr Timothy Arowoogun, applauded the way and manner at which the Osun state government has been managing the pandemic since its berth in the state. He reaffirmed the commitment of the Coalition Against COVID-19 (CA-COVID) to ensure adequate support for the government at various levels to end the spread of the disease.