 Guinness Nigeria Plc said it is reaching out to over 3,000 bar tenders and waiters with care packages to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 pandemic on their bars, restaurants which have been shut down since the outbreak of deadly virus. To move to reach out to hospitality professionals, including bar owners, bar tenders and waiters in the industry, the brewer said is a response to how the pandemic has impacted the livelihood of players in the sector. Speaking in an interview, Senior Brand Manager, Guinness Nigeria, Lola Ashafa said the company took the decision to show support to the bar community during the difficult time. Ashafa said: “We have decided to #RaiseTheBar. To show our support to our bar community during this difficult time, we will send a special care package to bartenders and bar owners. Send us their names using the hashtag #RaiseTheBar and we will handle the rest.” “With the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, bars and restaurants nationwide have shut down to adhere to social distancing and preventive guidelines, this has impacted on the livelihood of hospitality professionals such as bar owners, bartenders and waiters in the industry. “In response to the development, Nigerians concerned about the wellbeing of their favourite local bartenders and waiters, took to social media to seek support for their favourite bars and hangout spots. “The spontaneous plea caught the attention of Guinness Nigeria, who boldly stepped in by providing care packages to support at least 3000 bartenders and waiters mentioned by consumers across Nigeria. One of the beneficiaries from the scheme, Olumuyiwa Olumide, manager of Lagos pub, Bar Enclave, commended Guinness Nigeria for its dedication to providing the bar community with this laudable intervention. He said, “My sincere appreciation goes to Guinness Nigeria for this package. It is refreshing to be reminded as members of the bar community that we matter to our customers. This intervention will go a long way to sustain bartenders during this critical season.” With #RaiseTheBar, Guinness hopes to remind bartenders and wait staff, how much their extraordinary hospitality is appreciated by consumers across the nation.