 OrganiSers of The African Film Festival, TAFF, have announced plans to host the 2020 edition online due to the coronavirus pandemic. The festival director and founder, Kelechi Eke recently made this known saying the 4-day event will kick off on Tuesday, June 2 through Saturday, June 6, with film screenings, online workshops, and training sessions, and TAFF Awards ceremony. The annual event, which is held in Dallas, the United States of America, will showcase African independent films that either promote African culture; address issues affecting Africa; or explore African landmarks and historic leaders. “This festival strives to bridge cultures through films by inviting a diverse audience to celebrate some of the best films from and about the African continent,” Eke began as he explains the reason for holding the festival online. “There was much optimistic desire behind the scenes to reschedule the event due to the coronavirus pandemic. Instead, we opted to host it online and stream it globally. With so much uncertainty amid COVID-19, and, since no one can accurately predict when it might be possible to host the event safely and responsibly, and I personally would not feel good about putting hundreds of people in an arena any time this year.  “Moving the African Film Festival online, utilizing the latest streaming and community engagement technologies will certainly allow our pass holders and sponsors including global fans of the festival to watch more movies and uniquely interact with a wider range of celebrities than was possible in the past,” Eke said. In furtherance, Eke, a popular filmmaker and software engineer, said the attendees for this year’s festival will have the privilege of watching the festival selections in the comfort of their own homes as well as on-demand. The film portal Rootflix, according to him, will showcase the selected films and the awards ceremony. Currently, trailers of the selected films and full-featured films from previous festivals are ready for viewing on the Rootflix website. On April 15, the organizers commenced the tradition of highlighting each selected film daily with the “Trailer of the Day” spotlight through its website and social media handles. “TAFF 2020 attendees will be treated to an exploration of the African continent through the global lens and voices of talented filmmakers. This edition will be accessible worldwide,” says the festival director.