 The National Assembly and other relevant agencies have been urged to probe the multi-billion naira contracts allegedly awarded by the Interim Management Committee (IMC) of the Niger-Delta Development Commission (NDDC) as part of its COVID-19 intervention. The request was made by a group, Act for Positive Transformation Initiative, which claimed to have information that the alleged contracts were a scheme to divert public funds. The group, in a statement by its Head, Directorate of Research and Programmes, Kolawole Johnson, faulted claim by NDDC’s IMC’s Director of Project, Dr Cairo Ojugboh that no such contracts were awarded. It stated that a firm that had featured prominently in past controversial contracts by the NDDC, that ought to be under the searchlight of the ongoing forensic audit of the commission, got “the largest share of the self-serving COVID-19 intervention contract amounting to N4,861,354,250.00 and received mobilisation. “In characteristic style of the present IMC, supply details and specifications are always not indicated in the award letter in order to frustrate performance audit process. “The letter of award claimed the medical equipment was meant for testing, treatment and care of COVID-19 cases. “For verification, the details of transaction from the TSA account are as follow: Batch no: 13593, Vat no: 13595 and Withholding Tax no: 13594. This can be verified by anyone. “We hope the anti-corruption agencies will commence action immediately; we have made the job much easier by providing far reaching details. “For every payment made, we have it on good authority that a topmost kingpin collects kickbacks ranging from 30 to 45 percent, depending on the status of contract.  “For the past six months, it has been widely alleged that the Minister of Niger Delta, Senator Godwill Akpabio, has been using the forensic audit as smokescreen to mop up the account of the agency. “Nigerians should also note, the commission has squandered over $49B in illegal payments in the last two months, most of which are in defiance to Public Procurement Act, yet Dr Cairo claimed the present Interim Management Committee is yet to award any contract. “Today, dead fishes litter the Niger Delta coastline due to toxic releases of oil processing companies. “The avenue for subsisting income for the indigent has been wiped off, which may lead to severe widespread hunger in the land. Shall we close our eyes to this mad fleece while people die in suffering? “While the public space is awash with several allegations of corruption against the management, the All Progressive Congress, through its Deputy National Publicity Secretary, rose in cover for the commission. “Whereas it irresponsibly shows the party is not on the same page with Mr President on his anti-corruption war, it will, nonetheless, be criminal to find it as an active group player in the ongoing looting of the NDDC. “We call on the anti-corruption agencies to rise to the occasion to save whatever is left in the account of the commission. “This serves as a SOS call to the National Assembly to act in the interest of the people. The time is now. The commission, as presently constituted, is like a rotten mackerel by moonlight, it shines and stinks.
“We call on the Ministry of Finance, the CBN and the office of the Accountant General of the Federation to make public all NDDC transactions from the TSA account in the last two months.”