 Guinness Nigeria Plc in partnership with Muslim News, an Islamic newspaper has begun distribution of Malta Guinness to Muslims in different locations in Lagos. The collaboration was aimed at cushioning the economic effect of the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown which has impacted on economic and religious activities in Ramadan. The distribution exercise led by the Muslim News Publisher, Rasheed Abubakar saw hundreds of fasting Muslims and non-Muslims thronged the main distribution centre at Pent House, Surulere. Abubakar and his team moved to other local government areas including Coker/Aguda, Orile, Mushin, Awoyokun, Onipanu, Somolu, Ojuelegba, Bariga and Offin Ile, in Ikorodu to put smiles in the faces of fasting Muslims. They also distributed to different mosques including Alhaji Kilani Mosque, Ojuelegba; Alhaji Alebiosu Central Mosque, Palmgroove, Alhaji Ayolo Central Mosque, Ijesha, among others. Abubakar thanked Guinness Nigeria for the collaborative initiative. He said: “This year’s Ramadan is coming at a period the world is battling to curtail the spread of the Coronavirus pandemic. As a reliable Muslim newspaper, we felt the need to do something different apart from our primary responsibility, which is the provision of fact-based Islamic news.  “First, we must stay stronger together as Nigerians irrespective of religious persuasions and stand collectively by following all the health and precautionary guidelines to bring an end to this pandemic. Then, there is the need to provide palliatives for indigent persons, particularly fasting Muslims, more importantly, as Ramadan itself is a period of giving. “Any time we publish activities of Islamic groups giving out money, food or other relief packages, we receive countless requests for support from indigent persons – Muslims and non-Muslims. So, most times we refer them to these foundations since we are not an NGO. “Luckily for us, the Guinness Nigeria Plc Team reached out to us. They decided to give us 1000 cases of Malta Guinness for distribution to fasting Muslims. Interestingly, the company has embarked on this distribution of her non-alcoholic drink to support the palliative measures being undertaken by some states. We’re very grateful to them for this kind gesture.” 