 INSPECTOR-GENERAL of Police Mohammed Adamu has said 27 police officers have been attacked by members of the public while on COVID-19 enforcement duties. Adamu said many of these officers were still in hospital receiving treatment from the injuries sustained during such attacks. The IGP made this known in a statement condemning the assault on police officers, who were carrying out their COVID-19 enforcement duties in Oyo State on Monday. The statement, endorsed by the Force spokesman DCP Frank Mba, was made available to reporters on Sunday. Adamu commended the police officers in Oyo for their restraint and professionalism in the face of unprovoked attacks by a woman. The attack on the policemen was captured on video that went viral. “The Inspector General of Police, IGP M.A Adamu, NPM, mni, has commended the DCO II, Eruwa Police Division, ASP Adeyemo Ogunyemi, for his uncommon restraint and professionalism in the face of unprovoked attack as shown in a viral video where a woman identified as Kehinde Afolake was seen assaulting him unchallenged and without retaliation, while he was carrying out the COVID-19 enforcement duties at Gbolagunte, Okeola area of Eruwa, Ibarapa, Oyo State on 1st May, 2020. “The officer, like a lamb being led to the slaughter, did not fight back but rather, maintained absolute calm,  patience and decorum even as the woman rough handled him and slapped him severally. “The said woman also assaulted two female police officers, Inspector Ojola Abiola and Inspector Queen Eguaoje and gave one of them human bite on Saturday, 2nd May, 2020 during an attempt to invite her to the police station for the earlier incident of serious assault on the DCO. The Ewura incident thus is a classic example of unprovoked, unwarranted and unnecessary attacks faced by police officers in the course of performing their legitimate duties. The IGP therefore warns that this trend will no longer be tolerated by the Force. “The IGP has directed the Commissioner of Police, Oyo Command to carry out a discreet investigation into the Ewura attack on the police officers and ensure that justice is done,” the statement said.