First Bank of Nigeria Limited has processed transactions worth N156 billion across its Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) in country during the five-week lockdown. The bank recorded approximately 12.6 million withdrawals through the ATMs. Also, Nigerians with FirstBank cards used them 105 million times to make payments or withdrawals worth N1.18 trillion as they relied on us to settle their banking needs. “  Our customers made transfers over 106 million times with a total value of about N8.18 Trillion across our digital channels,” the bank said. The  bank has therefore expressed its appreciation to the public – especially its customers – for their continued patronage of its services during the COVID 19 lockdown, whilst assuring the public that stringent measures have been implemented to ensure its branches and locations across the country operate in line with the health and safety guidelines issued by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control to mitigate the spread of coronavirus. Expressing the bank’s delight at welcoming customers to its branches and locations from Monday, May 4,  the bank’s CEO, Adesola Adeduntan noted that these safety measures include ensuring personal protection, as wearing face masks is now mandatory; maintaining social distancing by reducing physical contact by at least one meter from the next person and queue guides and markings are in place to guide customers; as well as enhancing the practice of personal hygiene as hand washing stations and hand sanitisers have been provided. Speaking on the impact made by the bank across its sub-Saharan business Adeduntan said “We are glad that our investment in technology over the years has really borne fruit as many of our staff were able to work remotely during the lock down with effective IT support to hand.  We were therefore able to actively support our customers, their families and businesses through these challenging times. “We ensured business continuity across eight countries – Nigeria, Ghana; Democratic Republic of Congo; Sierra-Leone; the Gambia, Guinea; Senegal and United Kingdom.  We recognize that this has truly been a trying period and are poised to continue to provide as much support as we can to our customers and communities we operate in”.