Editorial  The decision reached by the Nigerian Governors Forum (NGF) seeking to drop the Infectious Diseases Bill on the score that it was not consulted smacks of institutional conceit. We are aware of the storm the bill has generated since it passed second reading. The intervention of the NGF would have made sense if the House of Representatives was also full of itself. The Green Chamber bowed to public pressure by submitting it to a public hearing. If the House had not subjected the bill to public hearing at the time of NGF’s call, it might not still have exonerated the governors. The NGF joined some groups and individuals who objected to the bill. But the NGF’s objection had little to do with the hoopla. In a statement, signed by its chairman, Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, it took that stand on the basis of an update from Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State. The statement did not raise concerns over what some saw as allegations of financial impropriety, which has been proven false, including media reports that generated apologies and retraction. The NGF did not make any allusions to claims of a police state and authoritarian impulse in the bill. That the House has tried to clarify. Its main grouse was that the House did not consult them. They did not even call for the House to meet with them in a mutually arranged setting for briefing on the whys and wherefores of the bill. They slammed a condemnation of it and asserted that the bill be dropped.  The NGF is a well-known, often respected, part of our democratic practice in this dispensation. They have intervened in some major issues of state, and their wisdom and leverage are important in furthering the democratic cause. They have also, at times, tended to see themselves as a coalition of republican monarchs whose orders must be obeyed by others. But they should understand that the NGF is not recognised in specific terms in the constitution. Like any other groups that can exercise their freedom to associate, the NGF has taken advantage of that opportunity. But no one has a power other than the influence of consent it can garner from such rights. That is where the NGF has missed its point in this matter, as it had sometimes done in the past. The House of Representatives does not have any obligation to consult with the NGF to make a law, although it could. The NGF made a good point that it is in the forefront of the fight against COVID-19, and so it should have been consulted. That calls for courtesy from the lawmakers, not command from the governors. If the house wants to change, it does not have to consult the governors but the lawmakers of the states. In its response, the house noted that, “Let it be known that the House of Representatives and indeed the National Assembly, are independent of the control of any state governor or former speaker, except if we want to change that now.” While acknowledging the governors as “critical stakeholders in nation-building,” the house’s job is to make laws while the governors’ is to govern with those laws. Members of the law have lobbed attacks at Governor Tambuwal for spearheading the NGF position as a former speaker. The governor has not made any such assertion but he needs to clarify such motives if they exist because of the alleged tension between him and the house leadership. However, when the matter is in the public domain, the NGF will do well to add its wisdom.