 Members of United Voice of Sabbath Churches of Nigeria in Anambra State, an umbrella body of Sabbath Churches have dissociated themselves from the woman recently accused of fetish practices in Agulu, Anaocha local government area of the State. The woman was reportedly caught by residents of the area making incantations inside a shrine prohibited to women in white dress akin to that of Sabbath worshippers. The residents, on sighting her at the shrine were said to have raised alarm which attracted the youth who subsequently invaded her residence and reportedly destroyed the fetish items discovered there. The incident reportedly generated public outcry in social media and local radio stations, linking the woman with the practice of Sabbath Churches. But in swift reaction, members of United Voice Of Sabbath Churches of Nigeria in the State said the woman had no Sabbatharian identity. Spokesman of the body, Rev Arinze Chukwuka, in a press briefing on Friday in Onitsha, warned that anybody associating the woman with Sabbath system of worship would be dragged to court to prove it. He said the umbrella body had carried out thorough investigation and discovered that the woman, though on white garment was a native doctor and not a Bible believing Christian. He said, “The general public should stop linking the woman with Sabbath worship because she has no identity as a Sabbath observer nor operate a Sabbath Church. “I led a team of clergy assigned to investigate the incident following a barrage of publication in social media and local radio stations but after interrogating her, she confessed she is a traditionalist not a Sabbatharian priest. “The members of the public are warned that Sabbath Churches are Sabbath observers who believe in the Ten Commandments of God and everybody who reads the Bible knows that the first of the Commandments is that people should not worship other gods in any form like wooden images. “So the woman couldn’t have been a Sabbath observer because she believes and worships wooden images as seen in her house.”