The World Health Organization (WHO) on Monday has said that it was focusing attention on available drugs/vaccine for COVID-19 (Coronavirus) to determine their efficacy. It also said it is still at the information gathering stage of the multi-country solidarity trial which should ultimately lead to a most effective formulation for treating COVID-19. Lagos, FCT, Ogun, Kaduna, Sokoto and Kano states had recently  signed up to participate in the WHO solidarity trial to find an effective treatment for the  pandemic virus in the shortest possible time. The Country Representative of the WHO, Fiona Braka, made this known during the daily briefing of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 in Abuja on Monday. Braka said, “The solidarity trial is a large multi-country effort that is going on across several countries globally. We are picking up on that trial in Nigeria. Some states have started while some are yet to start. “The whole idea is that the large pool of information across countries will be systematically analysed at the global level, in addition to what is coming in from the other countries. Guidance will now be provided to countries on which formulation is more effective. “These are not new drugs that we are trying but drugs that we already have available but are simply being repurposed for the intention of determining their effect on Coronavirus. We will keep you updated on what the timeline for the vaccine will look like. But we are still early in the process in collection of the data.” She also said the world has observed“ relatively few cases of COVID-19 confirmed in infants and children. Braka added that infected infants and children experience mild symptoms. The WHO boss said, “Recently, we have received reports from Europe and North America that have described a cluster of children and adolescents requiring admission to intensive care units with a multi-cystic inflammatory disorder which has some features similar to those of Kawasaki diseases and toxic shock syndrome. “The case report has described the presentation of an acute illness encountered by hyper inflammatory syndrome that eventually leads to organ failure and shock.”