 AT 106 years, Papa Dada Obafemi seems quite a rare creature. Though frail and slightly bent and walks at the pace of an elder his age; his sensory organs of sight, hearing, and memory appears to be in perfect state, perhaps top-notch. His voice, strong firm and audible; and his level of recognition, humour – he asked this reporter, who claimed to be a Lagosian to get him a piece of land ‘in a conspicuous location’; and accurate recollection of events and dates beats any young person’s FLAT. Just before this interview got underway, baba, a renowned Christ Apostolic Church Evangelist, Pastor, former President of the Church, and only surviving member of its Board of Trustees. On this day, the 27th of February, as the interview was about to get underway, he suddenly went into speaking in tongues and prayer. For convenience, please note that this interview was conducted in Yoruba, with interjections in English for clarity or emphasis. Asked how it is that he remains so active and committed to the affairs and unity of the church, Christ Apostolic Church, even at well over 100 years, his response was a straight allusion to the Bible. Jesus said, “No one gets anything except that which we have given unto him from heaven. That is how I was created from heaven. I was an idol worshiper at birth. I worshipped the Osun deity. My grandmother was the head of Osun deity religion. However, when she died, I said I would no longer worship the deity. My mother feared that they would kill me, but I retorted that there was no one born of man that could kill me. To cut the long story short, the deity’s shrine collapsed, when there was no one else to worship it. It was before my very eyes that Christianity entered core Yoruba land, and Islam also came in through Ilorin around 1917 or so. I am not sure of that date because I do not have the records. “When both religions came, the obas and chiefs opposed them. The leading monarch in my region, the Oba of Osi told the people outright not to join these new religions. I am a Prince because my father was also a King, the Alara of Isare Opin in present day Kwara State. Their forbearers migrated from Aramoko in present day Ekiti. My surname was Alara before I changed it at some point in my Christian life – all Isare Princes bear that name. At the time these religions were wooing faithful, they told me to join the Muslim faith but I said no. I actually was attracted to Islam because of the tobacco those who brought it then smoked. I also rejected the Christian faith. My father had three wives. The first born was female; the second was a male. He converted to Islam and became Jimoh. The second wife’s first born became a Christian. He joined the Anglican Church and was rechristened Joshua. It was my father who gave the Anglicans the land on which they built their church. It was a piece of land I cultivated for my mother’s elder sister. The church is still there till date. My brother went on to become a prominent member and leader in the church.” Year of the locust “The invasion of locust was the type that had never been seen before – at least not in living memory. People said they came from the Gold Coast – the present day Ghana, and ate up all crops. It came around May, when all farm produce had ripened and created a kind of famine never seen before. We called it ‘foworemi’ (use money to buy life) because it was only those who had money who were able to survive it. They would land on a tree and strip it naked, leaving only the stump. I remember how we resorted to hiding yam tubers in (palm-wine) kegs, block the mouths with rags and place them in water to keep them safe from the locusts. Then when it’s time to eat, we’d bring them out, add salt and roast.” My conversion My brother, Joshua wanted me to convert to Christianity, but I resisted. My mother had three children; the first born died, but the second born and myself refused to convert. However in 1931, something happened; and looking at subsequent turn of events, I’d say it was because of me that the Lord convinced the colonial government from the Ilorin Emirate to come and start a school in Omu-Aran. They sent a message to the provinces: Igbonna and Ekiti to select 22 pupils each. The villages making up these provinces were to come up with two pupils each. I remember that Oyi, a nearby village sent two but all my father’s chiefs turned down the offer. My father selected my elder brother to go for the interview, after which they said they’d get back to us in six weeks. My mother’s apartment was a stone throw from my father’s. She, like my father, was a farmer and she usually worked non-stop on the farm till late in the night. They brought a message on September 14 that my brother should be ready to proceed to school the very next day but my brother developed a stomach pain as a result of which he could not proceed on the journey. I was called upon to take his slot. Because it was destined, I was the only son of Isare that went. It will interest you to know that I was the only one of my set who had not known a woman. Most of us already had wife/wives as the case may be with children. I’ll put my age at around 17. I had this young maiden that I was close to, but for fear of exposing her to lifelong disgrace, I never went beyond that. If I had deflowered her and she got married and her husband found out that she was not a virgin, she would be the subject of derisive songs in the next Oke festival and the shame would be too much for her. The Oke festival usually held around the ember months; it coincided with the harvest period and maidens would compose satirical songs for entertainment. Also, I was the only one who knew practically nothing in that set of 44 students, whereas some of us who were members of ECWA and Anglican, were already conducting services amongst themselves. The school only needed 40, so they said the poorest four would be sent back after a six-month trial. At a point, the Manager and Principal of the school, Mr. J D Clarke, a white man, said those who had become Christians among us should group themselves, so he could get tem a Reverend. Ditto for the Muslims. When the Oba of Osi heard, he gave an order that none of us should convert. Even though his son, Emmanuel Afolabi, who was older than me and who was to later convert to Christianity, was amongst us, I went to Mr. Clarke and told him not to pay serious attention to the message from the Olosi, and that all of us would convert. Mind you, I hadn’t converted at this time, but that defiance just welled up in me. As the six-month trial period neared an ending, Clarke, Adedeji, his Yoruba teacher and our Headmaster Paul Adeshina, told me I would be the first to be sent home, because I was first among the dullest. Clarke however said he observed that I was unique in so many ways. In truth, I was very lively. Even when offended, I simply just laughed and moved on. Because of that, Clarke said he was leaving me off the hook, and that he would replace me with somebody else. He, it was who taught me to swim, by taking me to a nearby dammed stream. On several occasions, he also took me from Omu Aran to Offa Railway Station. There, he showed me all sorts of vehicles that came from Lagos and near, because they always stopped over there. He’d tell me, ‘Look at those TTC buses (public buses) and those well-dressed people you see in them, it is because they went to school.’ I was the only one he took on those trips. “That was how God miraculously made sure I was retained in school despite my shortcomings. From 1932, we started paying nine shillings as school fees. Everything we were using, including pencil came directly from the United Kingdom, free of charge. The Cassava Revolt We were eating three times a day and our meals included beans, pap, rice, yam and eba; we ate meat once a week (Laughs). Exception to that would be when we went into the bush to kill bush rats or snakes. Initially eba was not part of our meal, because it was novel to us. As a matter of fact, our initial response to it was that it was food for swine. The first time it was introduced to us, they brought five sticks to my father. He took two and gave the other three to his chiefs. It germinated and we harvested it but the pigs (swine)promptly ate them up. So our initial instinct was that it was food for swine, until God woke us up to the fact that it could be used to produce edibles like elubo and garri. So when they introduced it to our school meal roster, we revolted.  I spearheaded that revolt and we chanted songs like, “We are not eating gari o; it is food for swine.” I was promptly suspended for fomenting trouble. Eventually, the school won and it became part of our meal. We had a male and female cook. “It also took a while for us to first sight a plane. It was Mr. Adewa, one of our teachers, who had lived in Ibadan that took us out to see a plane for the first time as it flew across our sky. Back then, there weren’t so many cars either. And my mother probably never rode in one till she died. I believe she was afraid of the speed. ‘A year and six months later, Jimoh, my dad’s first born started a revolt. He told Joshua that they could not continue slaving for me on the farm, that my father should bring me back from school or they’d all hands off his farms. My father thought of this overnight and the following morning, he sent his messenger to deliver a message that school for me was over. I took the messenger to Clarke, who would not hear of it. Three days later, Clarke and I were in my hometown to see my father. He told my father that if he insisted on withdrawing me from school, then he should be prepared to pay back all the money the government had been spending on me. In the end, there was a stalemate. Clarke said he was not releasing me and that my father should not worry about the school fees anymore, since that was the bone of contention. My grateful father gave him three little eggs as present. There were no agric eggs in 1932. That was how I became Clarke’s protégé until he was transferred to Ubiaja, which later became part of the Middle Belt region. Subsequently, I stopped spending my holidays in my hometown. Instead, I’d go and spend a week to play with my teacher, A O Durojaiye – we loved each other dearly; then I’d go to Ishapa, some ten miles from my village to work on a farmland. I got paid sisi (five pence) per day, which I would save and use to buy clothes and books until I passed out. I stopped working on the family farm since they ganged up against me and said they could no longer fend for me. Lest I forget, Joshua was not comfortable with that plot, but he had no choice but to tag along. “God later performed another miracle in my life, as I literally became the star boy in arithmetic in the whole school. Any calculation I could not solve had to be referred to the headmaster. I also did well in Agric. I bought the best books with money from my labour. From 1937 to 1938, I was school monitor. “We passed out in December 1938, and by January 1939, the Headmaster summoned me to his office. He said the people of Oyan wanted a teacher who’d help teach their children and not corrupt them, and that I was the only one he could think of. “Good news, maybe; but I was not interested in pursuing a career in teaching. Even back then, teaching was not well paidpaying. Whereas sanitary inspectors, the police and timber fellers got paid 1.5 pounds, most times, with benefits of bribes, and road overseers got paid 1.2 and 6 pounds; teachers’ pay ranged between 7 shillings, 12 and half shillings and 15 shillings. And then we had to rely on government to get a job; me who had vowed to myself to become a millionaire in my life. “However I could not say ‘no’ to the headmaster and grudgingly accepted. But I was not happy.” Man vs. God “On January 15 1939, I went to intimate my father of my new job and that I would be leaving for Oyan to resume on the 17th. He had taken ill and the native doctors were busy trying out their powers to heal him. I stayed outside. By then, I had converted to Christianity and baptised. E. T. Babatunde baptised me into the Anglican faith. I was head of the Youth Wing and we called ourselves Egbe Oluwaniifise (The Lord has plan for this group). “Anyway, my pay at Oyan was 15 shillings, which didn’t quite please me. But the people made up for that short fall in their good conduct. As Christians, they saw a lot visions. I tried to copy them but hardly ever saw any. I started praying, received the holy spirit, spoke in tongues and heard voices in my sleep, but I hardly saw visions. “In June 1939, I told God that ‘I will serve you but I don’t want to be a preacher.’ But God appeared to me in my dream, saying that he sent me to the world to evangelise for Him the way He sent Jeremiah. I told Him I wanted to become a millionaire, and He told me to go ahead and become one. “I couldn’t sleep well for the next three nights because what the voice said did not go down well with me. The third day, I told the prophet, ‘I heard a voice’, help me pray over it. He asked that I explain what I heard, I said, ‘No, you are an anointed man of God from Kumasi, help me pray to God.’ “After three days of prayer, he told me, ‘The Lord said, ‘It is because of evangelism that I sent you to this world but you say you want to be a millionaire. Go ahead and become a millionaire.’ Exactly what I heard in that voice! He did not add neither did he take away any part. “Still, I was adamant. Not long after, two maidens came from Oshogbo to evangelise. One of them told me that I was created for evangelism. Again, I resisted. Some of the church workers who came from far and near to observe a three-day prayers and fasting also saw the vision and told me but I refused to accept. “In 1941, God again sent Hannah Omojebira from Akure to me on the same matter; yet my heart hardened. I insisted that ‘I will worship You but remove this Preacher part.’ The Hitler war and my Soldier experience On September 1, 1939, Hitler started the Second World War. He rejected the voice of the League of Nations. Three days later, America, Britain and France met and said what Hitler did would not go unchallenged. They ganged up and turned the heat on him. That was September 3rd. All the small countries became members of the Allied Forces and everybody literally became soldiers. Nigeria, as a colony of Britain, all our able men became soldiers. This also happened to men in the French colonies. The District Officers and Resident officers provided vehicles in cities like Lagos and able-bodied men were conscripted to join up. If you refused, you would be beaten to submission. Thereafter, they were taken to a doctor, who would certify their health status, and then they were transferred to training camps. The best they could do from then on was send message to their families. “That went on until 1941, when people wizened up and started going to enlist on their own. The advantage of that was that they got drafted into their areas of specialty and you may not end up in the warfront. If you tell them ‘I’m a teacher’, they would take you in and teach you army method of doing things. Sometime in 1942, I went to meet the Provincial Education Officer at Middle School, Ilorin. I can’t remember his name now. I told him I had worked four years in Oyan and that I needed him to send me to teach in Apataganga Native Authority School the following year. That was where Kwara and Kogi people went under recommendation of government. He however said he didn’t know me and that I should come back in December when he would have done his investigation. I went back to Oyan and notified them that I was quitting and they should get another teacher. “When I went back to see the white man in December, he said he had confirmed my status and that he would get me a job in January. I thanked him and made to leave. And then he dropped the hint: “By the way, why don’t you join the army? If you join the army as a clerk, you will be posted to Lagos, Kaduna or Enugu. Either way, you can easily become a millionaire. “Maybe he thought he was patronising me, but I retorted in anger, ‘Do you realise that even illiterates can become millionaires? So because I said my ambition is to become a millionaire, you’re telling me to go and join the army.’ “Seeing that I was really angry, he apologised and I left. But he had sown the seed. Even before I negotiated the 100meters bend from his office, the spirit of the military landed on me. I started thinking seriously about the army. Even as I travelled on a train to collect form towards my next job in Erinle, everything passengers were discussing amounted to nothing. I was thinking about the army. “I went to the prophet. I said, ‘I don’t know what happened, but the spirit of soldiering seems to have come upon me.’ He prayed for three days and then told me, ‘As I called Prophet Jeremiah, so have I called you. But you may go and join the army for the time being.’ “Even in the midst of this, I went to Ibadan and took time to go see some of my former pupils who were working as sanitary inspectors in the city, but a Cherubim and Seraphim faithful came out to meet me and told me God sent him to tell me that I must do evangelism work. “On January 10, 1943, I went to seek prayer at Apostle Ayo Babalola’s place. I didn’t know him and he didn’t know me. But as I knelt and he made to open his mouth, he said, ‘Get up. You are a pretender. God has shown you your calling. This work you are about to do is casual. You do it for a while and then go on to do the work of God. He said God had however granted me leave to join the army for the duration of the war.  TO BE CONCLUDED NEXT SUNDAY: Story just got started. Read Pa Dada Obafemi’s stint in the army, his World War II experience, why he is the oldest enlisted Nigerian soldier and his life as an apostle/ leading member of Christ Apostolic Church and why he is committed to reuniting the factions of the church before he dies.