Move over, “constituted authority”.  Welcome, “prescribed authority”, in all its haughty and swashbuckling majesty!  But mark you: you might have, on your hands, a royal rumble, with not so royal temper! That is the troubling brew from the Akure North local government of Ondo State, where the Deji of Akure, Oba Aladetoyinbo Aladelusi, is accused of over-reaching his legal and legitimate authority, by installing allegedly questionable minor chiefs and “Olus”, in adjunct and satellite communities, bordering Akure. Such communities include Oba-Ile, Iju, Ita-Ogbolu, Ayede-Ogbese, Osi, Eleyowo, Isinigbo, Owode and others. A trio of royal fathers are jousting with the Akure monarch on the issue, insisting the Deji should limit his chieftaincies to Akure itself.  They are the Okiti of Iju, Oba Amos Farunkanmi, Oloba of Oba-Ile, Oba Joseph Agunbiade and the Ogbolu of Ita-Ogbolu, Oba Idowu Faborode. They accused the Deji of Akure of installing controversial chiefs in Igboba, Eleyowo, Isinigbo, Ajebandele Tedibomi and Igbatoro. But the Akure monarch, prime if not paramount ruler in the whole of the area, came blazing from hips, locating his authority in some claimed judicial instrument, to which the protesting monarchs poured nothing by ice-cold water. “The recognized Chiefs or Obas in Akure North have instituted action against the Deji, for his provocative and unconstitutional incursions into Akure North to brew crises and make illegal appointments of “Olus” and “Baales”.  The case is still pending before the Ondo State High Court 6, Akure.  Hearing has not been concluded, not to talk of judgment.” “Oba Aladelusi,” they claimed, “has been deceiving the people that the court has declared him the prescribed and consenting authority over the entire communities in Akure North, though consenting authority had been abolished since 1981.  This,” they declared, “is patently false.  If the Deji has such judgment,” they challenged, “let him go to court and enforce it …” But the Deji responded to the charges with a recourse to history.  ”Prior to the installation of recognized kings in Iju, Ita-Ogbolu and Ogbese, all in Akure North,” he reminded the railing monarchs, “the Deji was the consenting authority over the appointment and installation of minor chieftaincies in these communities …” Hardball thinks both sides of the royal divide should wait for the court to pronounce judgment on the matter in dispute, rather than recourse to threats and counter-threats, which border on self-help.  Before that, however, the Ondo government should do the needful by reining in both sides. A royal rumpus over “prescribed” or “consenting” authority should not heat up blue blood, not to talk of boiling over to spill the hoi-polloi’s red blood, should things spiral out of control! That is why the Ondo government must move in, and maintain calm on the restive Akure North front.