Erstwhile Golden Eaglets’ captain Kelechi Nwakali said his career with Portuguese side Huesca is still on track despite some outrageous claims as he enthused about what lies ahead  on football return following the Coronavirus pandemic. Nwakali who joined Spanish Segunda Division side SD Huesca on a three-year deal from  FC Porto B as a loanee from Arsenal last , has been heavily criticised for lack of consistency. But the Golden  Ball winner at the 2015 FIFA U-17 World Cup in Chile said he has started enjoying a new lease of life in Spain. “Most of things people write about me are not even true,” the 21-year-old Nwakali told NationSport. “I only had difficulties with work permit and it has not been easy not playing for Huesca even after signing for them over six months ago. “Unfortunately, people just speculated because they don’t know anything about my career but I’m fine and okay with Huesca.” Signed by Arsenal soon after his exploits in Chile, Nwakali was farmed to clutches of clubs in the Dutch league and was warming up to a fresh start with Huesca until the outbreak of COVID-19 that necessitated the suspension of all football activities. “I actually joined and started training with the team just three weeks before the outbreak of COVID-19; I was at the point of getting into the team,” explained Nwakali. “ The COVID-19 pandemic has been a difficult period to the world and also for football  but all the same,  I have been doing my own part to keep fit  by following the club program and I’m preparing well waiting for the resumption because I have missed doing what I love doing.” Nwakali said he remains focussed on his dreams “My immediate goal now is to start playing again regularly then the long term goal is to be one of the greatest player in the world of football,” he said. “Well for the Super Eagle and the 2022 World Cup in Qatar, I believe only the players that are working hard in their clubs with consistent form that will represent Nigeria   and it’s my dream to be part of it.”