 Kia Motors Nigeria has informed customers that service centres and showrooms are opening their doors again under strict adherence to the government’s and health experts’ directives for business operations as the COVID-19 lockdown eases in phases. Because of the cautious and conscious business operations and guidelines, Kia will commence after-sales service to our customers. Kia said his team has been hard at work to ensure that all facilities are fully compliant with the regulations stipulated by government at all levels in maintaining a controlled environment for business operations geared towards combating and preventing the spread of community transmission of the COVID-19 virus. Kia Motors Nigeria Vice President Olu Tikolo said: “With many of our customers returning to work, it’s vital that we are up and running and able to support all their vehicle requirements in a safe and structured environment. “Over the past few weeks, we have worked hard to develop processes and procedures at every outlet both the showroom and service centres that safeguard both our staff and customers, and providing the necessary comfort to visit our facilities.” According to the auto giant, all Kia outlets will be operating under full compliance with safety measures. Kia said: “All visitors and staff will be subject to temperature screening when entering a KIA Motors facility. No person with a body temperature over 37.5 degrees Celsius will be allowed in. All visitors will be offered hand washing soap and clean water to wash their hands. Also, an alcohol-based hand sanitiser will be offered to clean their hands. Only a limited number of people are allowed into the facility at a time; full adherence to social distancing rules. All staff will wear Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), such as masks, at all times; and all cleaning procedures will apply to demo vehicles as well, and these will be sanitised before and after use. All public spaces will be sanitised at intervals every day. “Kia encourages its clients to call their preferred dealership beforehand – whether it is to attend to a vehicle repair, book a service appointment or schedule a showroom visit – as it will enable the dealership to stagger visitors, thereby keeping the number of people inside the showroom or service centres to acceptable levels, as well as negating any waiting time at our facilities.” Tikolo added that Kia is offering customers an alternative to visiting the showroom through our digital platforms. Kia Motors Nigeria Marketing Manager Olawale Jimoh said: “As we navigate through these trying times together, be rest assured of our commitment to providing best-in-class and convenient car buying experience and after-sales services to you. While we are aware of the restrictions and new realities occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic, we will continue to offer our support to you. We are all in this and together we will be triumphant in the fight against the virus.”  