The Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, has said he would release the medical report of the British-Nigerian woman, Susan Idoko-Okpe, alleged to be Benue State’s COVID-19 index case, to prove that she tested positive twice for the virus. Idoko-Okpe, 56, from Otukpa in the Ogbadigo Local Government Area (LGA) of Benue State, but resident in the United Kingdom (UK), claimed that she was neither infected with the virus nor symptomatic. She said she had been quarantined by the government since March 24 without any evidence that she was infected. According to her, 46 days after she was quarantined first in Benue, then at the National Hospital, Abuja, the Federal Government refused to produce the test result showing that she was positive. She alleged that the medical report upon which she was quarantined belongs to a 62-year-old woman, Sarah Okpe, from the Otukpo LGA. She claimed the owner of the report was tested in Benue for the virus on February 28, while she was still in the UK and that she arrived in Nigeria on March 22 only to be quarantined based on the February 28 medical report. In an April 23 letter to the minister through her lawyer, Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa (SAN), she demanded her release and an unreserved apology. Speaking during the daily briefing of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, Dr. Ehanire said: “As for the patient of Benue State, she has agreed to be tested and also as far as I am informed, she gave conditions for being tested and added that she must be given all her results which is okay. No problem. “So, the instruction is that she will be tested and she will be given all her results. What has happened since then, I will find out later this evening when I engage the Chief Medical Director of the hospital. “But we welcome the change of heart because before now she refused to give any sample. Now she has agreed that she will give test samples. And if she is negative, the story will end there.” The minister had denied the claims before, following viral videos Idoko-Okpe posted on social media. Dr Ehanire on April 15 described the woman’s claims as untrue, adding that she tested positive twice for Covid-19. According to him, she has refused to accept the results, stating that she claimed the results were fake because she was not showing any symptom of the disease. He, however, added that “efforts are being made to carry out a third test on her and if the test comes back negative, she would be discharged.” Speaking on her behalf, Mr Adegboruwa said: “Our client arrived in Nigeria on March 22, 2020, through the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos, and thereafter proceeded to Abuja from where she headed for Benue State to partake in her mother’s funeral programmes. “Owing to the stress of her journey, our client experienced some headache and fatigue, whereupon her sister introduced her to Grace Cottage Hospital, in Makurdi, Benue State. She was registered in that hospital on March 24. “On March 25, 2020, a doctor at Grace Cottage Hospital informed our client that the standard procedure for people coming from countries with high prevalence of COVID-19, like the United Kingdom, was to take their samples, so he would have to call health experts from the Benue State Ministry of Health to carry out a COVID-19 test on her. Our client did not object to this procedure, as a law-abiding citizen. “Thereafter, the doctor came into our client’s private ward in the hospital with two men, whom he claimed were from the Benue State Ministry of Health. “They took the samples from our client’s left nostril and her throat. Our client then enquired from the doctor as to the collection of the test results and he responded that they would be ready in 24 hours. Though our client was now well and ready to leave the private hospital, she was advised to wait for the outcome of the COVID-19 test results, so she waited. “On March 27, 2020, the doctor informed our client that the test results were out and they confirmed that our client had tested positive for COVID-19. Our client asked for the said test results, but the doctor claimed that he didn’t have them too and that he too was only informed verbally.” Adegboruwa said his client was shocked when her attention was called to a radio broadcast by the Governor of Benue State, declaring her as the COVID-19 index case in Benue while she had not even seen the result of the test. Adegboruwa said his client was subsequently moved to the Benue State isolation centre where she was allegedly “treated with disdain, dehumanised, stigmatised, traumatised and degraded”. The lawyer showed The Nation a page from an international passport bearing the stamp and March 22 date. He said: “As of 28th February when the letter was written, our client was still in the United Kingdom and she only arrived in Nigeria on March 22 2020, as confirmed by the stamp of the Nigerian Immigration Service on her passport. “The said letter indicated that the patient was referred to the Benue State University Teaching Hospital from a private hospital ‘AFTER she tested positive to COVID 19’. “As of this period, no test had been (nor could have been) conducted on our client as she was still in the United Kingdom and had not arrived Nigeria at all; and “Our client is not Susan Okpe and she is not 62 years old,” Idoko-Okpe stated in her petition. According to her, part of the medical basis for which she was quarantined, was a “purported laboratory test result from the National Reference Laboratory, Abuja, which refers to “OKPE SUSAN, 58 years, Female, Benue State, Otukpo Local Government Area”. 