SUNU Assurance Plc  Chairman, Kyari Abba Bukar, Sunu Assurance Plc has expressed concern over the welfare of health care frontline workers who are treating and caring for those with coronavirus. He spoke when the firm and its sister company, Sunu Health Nigeria Limited, donated N15 million worth of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to the Lagos State government to help protect  health workers on duty at its Medical Warehouse in Lekki. Bukar stated that coronavirus has no cure and the only way out of it is through prevention. He said: “All over the world, we hear doctors and health care workers being infected by the virus. We need our doctors to be hale and hearty in order to deliver care to the people. “We have personal protective equipment’s worth about N15 million that we are giving out to protect our frontline workers.” ‘’This is Sunu group’s contribution to the pandemic all across Africa. Suno is in 14 African countries primarily west African countries both the French speaking and the English speaking west African countries. In each and every country there has been similar donations being made of PPE for the front line workers that are tackling this pandemic.’’ Its Managing Director, Sunu Assurance, Mr. Samuel Ogbodu said the Sunu Group, said: “Since the coronavirus is ravaging the whole of Africa, the Group decided to contribute its own quota in the fight towards the elimination of covid 19 in the various countries where are present. We are present in 14 countries in sub-Saharan Africa. “Aside from this, Sunu Assurance here in Nigeria also contributed to the insurance industry N11 billion insurance cover for 5000 frontline health workers under the Nigeria Center for Disease and Control (NCDC). We will also be supporting the less privileged people. We also pray for the front line workers. “As an insurance company, our advice to the people is that they should protect themselves against the virus by following the social distance guideline and also ensure that they have insurance policies in place to protect their lives and businesses.’’ Sunu Health, Dr Patrick Korie listed the items as N95 masks, splash resistant suits and googles. He said the Group plans to donate to other states. Receiving the materials for the Lagos State Government, Mr. Olajide Rasaq, who manages the Medical Warehouse, appreciated Sunu Group. ‘’It is for everyone that has the capacity to help,’’ he added. So far, the parent company Sunu Group, one of the leading Pan-African group of insurance, has donated N300 million worth of PPE across Africa as part of its support to governments.