Wasiu Ipaye, former Super Eagles attacker, still maintains his petite figure more than two decades out of competitive football. Ipaye was one of the most travelled players in his era having played in Benin Republic, Gabon, Tunisia, Morocco, and South Africa. “I played in Gabon and there I won laurels, emerged highest goal scorer, player of the year and from there moved to Club Africain in Tunis, Tunisia,” offered Ipaye. “I also played in Morocco, and from here signed for Kaiser Chiefs in South Africa. In Kaiser Chiefs I played alongside Doctor Khumalo, who later emerged as one of South Africa biggest players. “Also in the team were Mark Williams, Marc Batchelor, Louis Tobin, and Liberty Masunda. Most of these players played for the senior national team of South Africa.” A member of the Nigeria Flying Eagles squad to the FIFA U-10 World Cup held in Russia in1985 , Ipaye, who now works with up and coming players in the quiet Lagos suburb  of Ikorodu speaks about his humble beginning and struggle to make it big in football in spite of his smallish frame. TAIWO ALIMI captures the interview. How did you get into football? I started playing football from grassroots when I was young in my area. I started on the streets like many kids in Nigeria. I used to go out with my friends as a team and we would be playing other team from other areas. It was the same in school where we play during and after school hours. At that time when parents did not believe in football, how did you convince your parents? Yes! Even my parents did not believe in football but I have passion for the game so I was always sneaking out to play. Anytime I went out to play, my parents will flog me when I got back home but that did not deter me because the passion for football was too strong. I knew that I have something to do with football and I kept on playing. How did you get into competitive football? I got into competitive football when I left secondary school and my first club side was Amicable Assurance, an amateur football club in Lagos. I left Amicable not long after to join IBWA and later played for First Bank FC, which is one of the biggest clubs in Lagos at that time. I was in First Bank when late Paul Hamilton called me to the national camp and that brought me to limelight and opened doors for me to play outside the country. I played in Gabon and there I won laurels, emerged highest goal scorer, player of the year and from there moved to Club Africain in Tunis, Tunisia. I also played in Morocco, and from here signed for Kaiser Chiefs in South Africa. In Kaiser Chiefs I played alongside Dr Khumalo, who later emerged as one of South Africa biggest players. Also in the team were Mark Williams, Marc Batchelor, Louis Tobin, Liberty Masunda, and Louis Tobin. Most of these players played for the senior national team of South Africa. Of the clubs you played for, which one brings great memories to you most? The memory of the national team is something I have to thank God for. It will stay with me forever. Playing for the national team in my time was not a joke and some people that inspired me to play for the national team are Managing Director of Amicable Assurance, Yera Adeyemo. He was the team manager of the junior national team then and he inspired me in a lot of ways to believe in myself and go for it. I have to thank late Coach Paul Hamilton for bringing me to limelight. I was playing for First Bank FC when the national call-up came while Hamilton was coaching the junior national team of Nigeria. I was in the 1985 U-20 bronze medalist in Moscow Russia. It was a great joy because we were not given a chance to qualify for the Junior World Cup. In the two-legged Africa qualifier, we were defeated 3-0 in Yaoundé, Cameroon, and coming back to Nigeria we defeated them 5-1 to move into the final phase of the qualifier against Tunisia and we defeated them to get into the World Cup. Getting into the World Cup, my low moment was that throughout the tournament I was on the bench. Coach Udumezie was in charge of the team and he was not happy that I lost a penalty in a friendly game against Golden Eaglets while getting ready to play Cameroon in the qualifier. He was angry and replaced me with Osaro Obabaifo. Since then he refused to start me in any game and kept me on bench. Some of my colleagues in that team were Waidi Akanni, Samson Siasia, Ndubuisi Okosieme, Christian Obi, Augustine Igbinabaro, Monday Odiaka and Michael Odu. However, I cherished every moment of that competition where we finished third after beating the host country in the third place match. Brazil beat us 2-0 in the semi-final. After that I graduated to the Super Eagles and played in the 1990 African Cup of Nations with the likes of late Rashidi Yekini, Samson Siasia, Alloy Agu, Andrew Uwe and others. Who were the people that inspired your career? The people that inspired me are mostly dead. Coach Loven of Amicable Assurance did well. Coach Hamilton and Chris Udumezie tried in their ways to help me. Then Coach Tunde Disu is still around. He did well. Coach Ganiyu Salami of Shooting Stars is still around. I really thank God for them because without them I cannot be a great player. They taught me many things. Even when I was young I was the smallest. I was smallish in stature but I have heart. My colleagues call me lionhearted, small but mighty. I will also like to thank Wakilu Oyenuga, Olumide Banjo because when I finished my education, I used to go to their training to train with them at WEMA Bank and I did not even have size of boot but they encouraged me and that helped me to get to the biggest stage of my career. I always play with my heart whenever I’m playing. You ventured into coaching after your playing career? I’ve ventured into coaching since I stopped playing. It is something I have passion for and I believe that from what I’ve learnt in football I have what I takes to impart in the younger ones and launch them into the limelight too. I have established an academy and there I teach kids the rudiment of the game. It is in Lagos. Are you children into football and how do you encourage them? My first son love football but he’s not playing at top level. He usually plays with his friends in the area. Even my girls are all facing their studies. That is where their focus lies and it is not because I discouraged them from playing football. Even the girls play within my compound but they do not have the ambition of playing to the professional level. They just play for fun. How do you unwind? After football I read novels whenever I can lay my hands on one. I play with my children and love to go out with friends. In-fact I do not regret being a footballer and playing for the national teams. As a coach I have coached First Bank FC, worked with Benin junior national team courtesy of my manager Musharaf Anjorin, who was then the Benin Football Federation president. He gave me that opportunity to train their junior national team because I can speak French and English.