 Katsina residents have taken to social media to lament over the incessant killings, bandit attacks, kidnappings and other criminal activities perpetrated by armed bandits amid this ravaging COVID-19 pandemic in the state. The residents while using the hashtag; #PrayForKatsina, called on President Muhammadu Buhari, the state Governor; Aminu Bello Masari and security agencies, to come to their aid over the rising spate of insecurity in major communities across the state even amid the coronavirus scare in the country. The Nation learnt that in the past few weeks, the state has recorded casualties owing to the persistent armed bandit attacks across some communities in Katsina. On Wednesday, members of the Katsina State House of Assembly registered their displeasure over the state of insecurity in the state. They berated the state and federal government for not securing the lives and properties of Katsina residents. Deputy Speaker, Shehu Tafoki, reportedly cried profusely while talking about rising insecurity in his constituency. While the Katsina state Governor, Aminu Masari has expressed sadness over the incessant killings, he stressed that many residents are not scared because of the coronavirus outbreak but due to the incessant bandit attacks in the state. According to the NCDC’s latest statistics, Katsina has recorded a total of 224 COVID-19 confirmed cases. @el_ahmadyy tweeted, “This is the current situation of Katsina now. People are killed daily in Batsari, Dan-Musa, Safana, Faskari, Kankara, Sabuwa, Jibia to mention a few. Many people have been kidnapped. Thousands have been displaced with nowhere to go. We demand the FG to take action” @Miqdad_th14 said, “Katsina state house of Assembly was on Fire during today’s plenary session As law makers expressed their Dismay & Anger on the recent bloodshed in katsina by Arm bandits.They have recommended the Governor and Federal Law makers to lead them to see the President ” @Saif_snr said, “Katsina is bleeding, our people are being Massacred, Our people are being looted, killed and raped everyday and the government is doing pretty much nothing about it.” @Kulthum_y said, “They are killing and raping innocent souls in batsari” @ladyposhhhhh said, “Katsina State use to be very peaceful and a home of hospitality, but now it is volatile and taken over by bandits. #prayforkatsina” @__usyy said, “Despite all the clamorings and calls for actions against the rampant bloodsheds, kidnappings, raping of innocent soul in Katsina by bandits, govt still turns a blind eye and deaf ear without taking any acton to address the situation. Katsina needs govt to act asap #PrayForKatsina”