I pity coaches of the country’s senior soccer side, Super Eagles, especially during competitions. I often stayed back at training pitches in Europe or Asia watching the managers relate with their assistants as the team works out for the next game. They are always a pitiable sight to behold, more so if the country lost the first game. The sessions are predictably. Filled with experts who didn’t know how the team qualified, but are at the competition as part of several delegations from Nigeria. Part of the jamboree? You have started again. Qualification games for competitions are handled by the coaches, players, backroom staff supervised by NFF chieftains, irrespective of how well or badly the team plays. When the ticket is secured and plans are afoot for the competition, all manner of permutations rear their not too beautiful heads, with Nigerians fragmented into those groupings, depending on those leading them. Sad, ex-internationals, who should stem the disturbing drifts join the fray by living in the past, as if it was worth the struggle, given the country’s records in such tournaments. Put simply, ex-internationals are part of the problems of  Nigeria football. A topic for another day. Rather than bring their experiences in Europe playing the beautiful game in top soccer teams and under good coaches to bear on the team, they constitute themselves into groups clamouring to take over the federation, as if FIFA and CAF are run by ex-internationals. Mention must be of Kanu Nwankwo and Austin Okocha, who have chosen to relate with the squad players than become fifth columnists to destroy a sport which brought them opulence and fame. Okocha’s and Kanu’s ambassadorial roles have lifted the spirit of the boys beginning with the qualifiers unlike some others who sit aloof, swimming with the tide, only to peddle influence to get on government delegations to competitions they didn’t have faith in. Winning continental titles and the World Cup, for crying out loud, is a project that requires routine changes occasioned by the results of games played until the final product is ready. The closest Nigeria got to assembling a winning squad was with Clemens Westerhof.  Sadly, we blew the chance when we refused to implement Westerhof’s advice that we relocate our  camp to a more serene place, shortly before the game against Italy, which we lost. Many have forgotten that Bulgaria which we beat resoundingly 3-0 in the group stage of the USA’94 World Cup clinched the bronze medal by placing third. Had we listened to Westerhof, Nigeria could have won a bronze or silver. Who says we couldn’t have won the World Cup in 1994, given what we did at the Olympics in Georgia Atlanta in 1996, with almost the same crop of players? Westerhof’s revolution resulted in the Atlanta’96 Olympic Games, even though he had left the country. The Dutchman’s players would have won the 1996 Africa Cup of Nations held in South Africa but the draconian decision by the late Sani Abacha to stop the team from participating in the tournament. Westerhof’s men exited the Eagles after the 2002 Japan/Korea World Cup, with Nigeria’s unprecedented turnover of coaches. We reduced the Eagles to a rebuilding tool. Westerhof’s five-year stay ensured that we had depth in talents for most of our national teams. Credit to Westerhof  for watching our domestic games to fish out Amokachi, Friday Elaho, Benedict Iroha, Uche Okechukwu, Finidi George et al. He took these rookies then to Europe to polish their skills and it rubbed off on our national team(s) performances during competitions. The star-trek overseas  which Westerhof introduced removed the inferiority mask we had on four faces to the Europeans in tournaments. Training with these big stars in Europe, emboldened our players when the chips were down in competitions. Prior to the Nigeria job, Westerhof was a coaching upstart but he had a plan and recognised good players, which is what Gernot Rohr possesses, except that he doesn’t like to watch our domestic league. Will you blame him? What are the captivating things in the league? The few good players  are taken away by shylock agents. The boys change their names, casting doubts on who they are when they start doing well. Let me name players with this dubious acclaim. “We cannot find all the time players in the local league who are better than the other ones,” Rohr told ESPN. “The criterion for us, the first criteria is the quality of the players. Everybody knows, not only in Nigeria, that the best players are in Europe or somewhere else in professional leagues. That is the fact. “I invited already more than 23 or 24 local players since I have been in charge of the Super Eagles but we invite them and then immediately they are going to Europe. It is wonderful for them but maybe not for us.” Westerhof  used to be an unheralded coach but understood the politics of the game. He struck a chord with the authorities, when he had unchallenged access to the seat of government in Abuja. He became the boss of his employers, but never rubbed it when the need arose.  Rather, he cemented his relationship with top government officials by getting the right results after his requests were given to him. It was easy for Westerhof to navigate his way. Westerhof had presence. He couldn’t be pushed away. He knew when to make the noise in his smattering English and found extreme favour with the fans, who could die for him. Rohr may have an edge because he had managed other African sides before coming to Nigeria. Rohr had worked for countries with the unholy penchant of owing coaches. He had developed thick skin for such misnomer, which made him a proper fit for the NFF, an hitherto notorious body for owing coaches, Nigerians inclusive. Besides, Rohr inherited an Eagles side which couldn’t win as those who claimed to have assisted the former coach abandoned him to prove the point, leaving a former African champion open to be beaten by every country, even in Nigeria. Needless ego among those who produce a good Eagles squad thrust Rohr, from Niger Republic as the messiah. Rohr did well to sustain what he met on ground. What he did was to introduce some of our former Golden Eaglets stars into the squad. Not many coaches would have handed Kelechi Iheanacho and Alex Iwobi as starting line-up strikers in a tough away game as that against Zambia. Both players proved Rohr right to trust them and scored the goals as Super Eagles won 2-1 to begin the 2018 World Cup qualifying series on a confident note. Super Eagles’ resurgence wasn’t magic. It was born out of Rohr’s willingness to give youths the opportunity to shine and they showed their new found confidence when they hammered Africa’s best team at the time, Algeria 3-1 in Uyo. The fans went bonkers that day and every other time the Eagles played. It was no surprise that they qualified for the World Cup in Russia, with a game to spare. Rohr took the youngest team in the world to the 2018 World Cup but they fell short because even the coach lacked the required experience to guide them beyond the group stage. But should they be allowed to continue their growth together? Or is Rohr just a Moses for our football? One thing Westerhof and Rohr brought to the national teams was their refusal to be led by the cabal in the place, in terms of players’ selections and how they ran the business of the team. Foreign scouts and shylock agents didn’t have field days like they did when Nigerian coaches took charge. I wonder why those who championed the removal of Nigerian coaches for foreigners think the time is ripe for our locals to handle the Super Eagles? Even those who partook in the process of recruiting foreign coaches through an interview in England are disturbing us with jaded analysis, as if they were not part of those who we sent to visit our players in Europe, yet they stay in one hotel and started making calls. Rohr isn’t the perfect choice but his reign has been successful. We have seen teams recruit the ‘best’ coaches and coaches, yet they falter because the chemistry of the squad wasn’t good. No Nigerian coach would have taken the risk to field Iheanacho and Iwobi as strikers in the Battle of Ndola against Zambia. No Nigerian coach would have dropped a fumbling Iheanacho with Leicester City from the Eagles squad to the last Africa Cup of Nations for rookie Victor Osimhen. See what that gambles have turned to be for younger lad since his excellent performance with the Golden Eaglets. None of the Nigeria-born lads would have listened to our local coaches in the campaign to get them to change their nationality. These lads have strengthened the Eagles, with many doing well in their debut appearances for the country. If the Nigerian coaches are so good, what have they achieved with our other national teams, even when we draft some of these young lads in the Eagles on rescue mission? Look, I’m a patriot, Nigerian coaches don’t have what it takes like we had in the days of yore with Alabi Aissien, Adegboye Onigbinde, Monday Sinclair, Joseph Erico, Lawrence Akpokona, Charles Bassey, Bitrus Bewarang, Ben Dualong, the late Willy Bazuaye, the late Shuiabu Amodu, the late Abdullahi Bebe, the late Joseph Ladipo et al. Did I hear you ask about the late Stephen Keshi? May Keshi’s soul rest in perfect peace.  The coaches I mentioned coached local clubs to glory while others provided quality challenges which helped the winners to triumph. A hard NO to local coaches for the Super Eagles. They have not grown in the tactics of the game. They haven’t transformed from being players to coaches. They are burdened by their egos. The few times we had local coaches handle the Eagles, it was always a running battle between them and the new stars. Wasn’t it a local coach who said two brothers cannot play for the Eagles? Pity. Do we still remember what Laudrup brothers did us in at the 1998 World Cup in France when Denmark whacked Nigeria 4-1? Atuegbu brothers played for Nigeria. Let’s not waste space to list brothers who have played for their countries.   