 The National Human Rights Commission ( NHRC) said it has opened investigation into the recent gruesome killing of an undergraduate‎ of the University of Jos (UNIJOS), Rinji Peter Bala allegedly by security operatives along Zaria Road, Jos, Plateau State. The NHRC’s Executive Secretary,Tony Ojukwu, who said his commission condemned the unfortunate incident in strong terms, said the decision to probe the killing was informed by the preliminary findings received by the office headquarters in Abuja. NHRC’s Director Corporate Affairs and External Linkages, Lambert Oparah in a statement on Sunday, quoted Ojukwu as describingthe killing of Rinji as inhuman and a gross violation of his right to life as enshrined in the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 and other international human rights instruments to which Nigeria is a party. Oparah said his agency has directed its Jos office to investigate the circumstances surrounding the killing of the young man with a view to bringing the perpetrators to book.  Oparah quoted. Ojukwu as appealing to members of the public to remain calm promising that all those involved in the dastardly act will be fished out and brought book. He added: “This is in line with the commission’s mandate of monitoring and investigating all alleged cases of human rights violations in the country and seek appropriate redress and remedies for victims. “The NHRC Executive Secretary commiserated with the family of the deceased and calls for calm , assuring that no stone will be left unturned in getting to the root of the sad incident. “At the wake of the COVID-19 Lockdown, the NHRC has been working with relevant CSO’S and members of the public in monitoring and documenting human rights violations by law enforcement agencies. “Between 31st March and 4th May 2020 , of the lockdown, the commission documented a total of 209 rights violations bordering on extra judicial killings, torture, inhuman and degrading treatment,violations of rights to freedom of movement, unlawful arrest and detention, seizure of properties, gender based , (SGBV) as well as domestic violence . 29 of the complaints were extra-judicial killings, resulting to deaths.”