 Sir: Perhaps nothing would be a lesson to us if it didn’t come too late – George Elliot. The world must applaud Madagascar, the tiny country of 27.5 million people. The government of this country supports and promote research including their own local products. I think Nigeria should learn from the country that until you spend time, money to promote, recognize your own local content, you will remain a dumping nation or a supermarket for foreign products. Over the years, our universities, research institutes and traditional herbal producers continue to come up with tangible solutions to our health sector challenges, but due to our lackadaisical attitudes to things indigenous, nothing is done to develop them. Instead we are so brainwashed to the extent that common pain on our fingers would take us to foreign countries for treatment. Now, COVID-19 has forced both the poor and the rich to scramble for hospital bed space in Abuja and Lagos. Madagascar is showing us how to do it; that Africa can stand strong with less intervention from the developed world. Madagascar vaccinated its 7.2 million people (over one quarter of its population) with measles, mumps and rubella (MMR)-containing vaccines in 2019. This was in addition to anyone previously vaccinated. Madagascar remains one of only a few countries with zero deaths from COVID-19. In population after population, anytime a much larger than usual number of people have had the MMR vaccine, there are few and in some cases no deaths from COVID-19. Evidence continues to add up, demonstrating that the commonly available MMR vaccine could be the key to stopping the COVID-19 pandemic quickly, allowing much of the world to get back to business as usual within months.  Hong Kong is an example of a population which had extended MMR vaccination campaigns to include many adults. A city with nearly the same population as New York City, and located just over 500 miles from Wuhan where the pandemic began, Hong Kong has seen only four COVID-19 deaths. By contrast, New York City has had 337,000, confirmed COVID-19 deaths and 21, 640 probable COVID-19 deaths during the same period with more counting. Principal investigator Jeff Gold discovered the correlation of MMR vaccination rates to COVID-19 death rates on March 18. Gold has since evaluated epidemiological data about MMR vaccination programs from dozens of countries, with each correlation verified by co-investigators William H. Baumgartl and Larry P. Tilley. Corroborating biological evidence has since been published by a team of neuroscientists at the University of Cambridge, indicating that rubella component of the MMR vaccine is active against COVID-19. The World Health Organization WHO in conjunction with Nigerian government has ordered five vaccines to undergo clinical examination in addition to Madagascar solution COVID-19 Organic to be imported into the country for clinical trial to ascertain Its efficacy or genuineness. This is good news from distant land and I hope we would learn a great lesson from it. 