The power sector can only return to optimal performance after COVID-19 pandemic when stakeholders, including the Federal Government, would be able to put in place measures that would galvanise the industry. For this, improvement in investments, generation, distribution and transmission of electricity and provision of meters have to be addressed, writes AKINOLA AJIBADE. Like a festering sore, the deplorable state of the electricity sector has caused more harm to Nigerians. There is a sing-song of woes in the sector. Not only are issues, such as irregular supply of electricity, estimated billings and shortage of meters, being discussed with passion, the problems have forced many Nigerians to resign to fate. Successive administrations have tried to fix the problems in the sector to no avail. Recently, the sector recorded one of its worst performances when it generated below 2,000 megawatts (Mw), a figure, which is not enough to meet the needs of many Nigerians. Ironically, the development coincided with the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic,  which has stalled the operation of many businesses across the world. More worrisome is that the issue has resulted in lockdown of socio-economic activities, which has impacted on the sector. Though Nigeria as stated in President Muhammadu Buhari’s broadcast, there is partial removal of the lockdown, the development suggests that the economy is still in limbo. While this lasted, stakeholders are hopeful that the sector would improve its operation if only it can attract more investments and rejig the operation of its three key segments – generation, distribution and transmission. Generation With generation of less than 5,000Mw, stakeholders believe that the country could utilise its vast resources to produce electricity that is enough to meet its growing population during the post COVID-19 era. According to the Executive Secretary, Association of Power Generation Companies (APGC), Dr Joy Ogaji, shortage of gas is the bane of the power generation sub-sector. She urged the government to improve on the provision of gas. She said by so doing, the sector would produce electricity and contribute to the economy. She said levies, including the imposition of Value Added Tax (VAT) of 7.5 per cent by the Federal Government on gas sold to the electricity generation firms, were affecting the use of the product in the sector.  The industry, she said, should assist in reducing the volume of stranded electricity, stressing that the idea would enable the country to utilise electricity well. The industry, she said, boasts of 1,000Mw of stranded electricity due to transmission problems. She advised the government to put in place measures to avert such occurrence in the future. Similarly, the former Director, Centre for Energy Studies (CES), University of Port Harcourt, Prof Wunmi Iledare, said the country should make use of its abundant gas resources to improve electricity production. He said: “Now that Nigeria is making  efforts to put an end to the spread of coronavirus, which has taken a toll on the world economies, it is going to be a good thing if the country can up its electricity generation by making more gas available to the over 23 thermal power plants nationwide. “In the short run, the best that can be done by the Federal Government is to provide gas for electricity generation.” He said the government and the power generation firms were trying to provide enough gas for production, urging them to intensify efforts in that area. The government, he said,  should in the long run set aside sentiments and patronage to revisit the Electricity Act and redefine market for end-users. Distribution Though the 11 power distribution companies (DisCos) approved by the Federal Government during the privatisation of the sector are believed not to be doing enough in  electricity supply, the Executive Director, Research and Advocacy, Association of Nigerian Electricity Distributors (ANED), Mr. Sunday Oduntan, advocated more investments in the sector. The sector, he said, is performing well despite its meagre resources, adding that when more funds are made available to the power firms, the sector would witness rapid growth. Oduntan urged the government to improve the transmission mechanisms in the country with a view to ensure that electricity is evenly transmitted to the consumers. In a related development, Iledare urged the DisCos to evacuate more electricity and  purchase more power to meet the needs of their consumers. He said: “I hope the electricity distribution firms do have some cash flows in their reserves or better put cash reserves to meet the energy needs of the consumers in a period like this in which there is lockdown of economic activities caused by the spread of coronavirus.’’ Iledare said electricity distribution firms operate with obsolete infrastructure, urging them to scale up their activities by bringing new equipment that would fast-track their operation whenever Nigeria overcomes the epidemic. Transmission Industry watchers have picked holes in the operation of the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), claiming that the company is yet to rid itself of some obsolete equipment. Based on this, they advised the management of TCN to improve its facilities to avoid frequent collapse of transmission equipment. On issues that militate against the growth of the sector,  the Managing Director, Power Cam Nigeria Limited, Mr Biodun Ogunleye, said the government needs to increase investments in the generation,  distribution and transmission  of electricity  in Nigeria, stressing that any attempt by the Federal Government to overhaul the operation of the sector would pave way for its growth. He said post COVID-19 would pose more challenges for the stakeholders, including the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), noting that the sector would record growth once investments were made in the various segments of the industry. Also, Iledare advised TCN to beef up its workforce by ensuring that more competent people were saddled with operating transmission equipment. He said when this happened, TCN would be able to detect the transmission problems early and proffer solutions to them. He said a competent workforce would know what to do once there are hitches in electricity transmission, noting that the same process was adopted in the oil industry where he worked as a well engineer. Being engineers, he and his colleagues were able to detect problems during exploration and production of crude oil. He advised the government to put in place a recapitalisation scheme that is similar to what happened in the banking sector when Prof. Chukwuma Soludo was the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN).