Leicester City Striker Kelechi Iheanacho has provided supporters of the English Premier League side  with an insight into how he’s faring while staying at home. The Foxes frontman has been sticking to his training regime in a bid to stay fit during the COVID-19 pandemic that has put a halt to Premier League proceedings. Like many in the City squad, Iheanacho has also spent time perfecting his cooking skills, with traditional foods native to West Africa on the menu. “I’m just doing my personal training at home,” said Iheanacho. “The training coaches send us stuff for training and everyone is just training at home and doing some exercises. “I’m playing games, I’m reading my Bible as well, so not much, but it’s not bad. I’m just doing what I should do – work, reading books. “I can cook as well – plantains, yams, rice, beans, chicken and all the rest. It’s been good, it’s a good way to keep busy.” For Iheanacho, the bond he has built with his fellow Foxes since joining the Club from Manchester City in 2017 means he is very much missing the day-to-day camaraderie of the bustling Belvoir Drive training complex. “To be fair, it’s been difficult and I’m missing my team-mates so much,” he said. “I’m missing everybody, especially Wilf [Ndidi]. It’s not been easy, but I’m missing everybody. “I’m trying to keep in contact with everyone and the staff as well. I’ve been able to talk to Wilf most of the time as well as the other lads, and the manager. “He’s a good friend and a good man, and he keeps in touch – he listens to every other player. We’re a good family and hopefully I will be back on the pitch.” Manager Brendan Rodgers has been in regular contact with his players, and when asked about the Northern Irishman’s impact on the team, Iheanacho explained why he’s improved him – on and off the pitch. “It’s been wonderful, he’s been great since he’s come in,” said the City No.14. “He’s changed the environment and the atmosphere. He’s changed the players’ mentality. “The staff, everyone is happy. He’s a good friend, he’s a good coach, he’s a good man, so it’s just a perfect one for Leicester City. “Everyone is happy to have him and I’m very happy to have him as my manager. He’s made me a better person and a better player, so I’m happy. “I can’t wait to come back on the pitch with him again, so we’ll keep working,” he said.