By Omobola Toolu-Kusimo  The National Pension Commission (PENCOM) has delivered troubled Pension Fund Administrator (PFA), First Guarantee Pension Limited, to a new board after years of regulatory intervention and takeover. The commission said it has concluded its intervention, which came as a result of the judgment delivered by the Court of Appeal, Abuja Division last Thursday, in the three appeals filed by the Commission, the Attorney-General of the Federation and the PFA, against the judgment of the Federal High Court that nullified the Commission’s regulatory measures. According to the commission, the Court of Appeal’s decision upheld the appeals, thereby setting aside the judgment of the Federal High Court. Thus, the judgment of the Court of Appeal validates the regulatory actions taken by the commission in 2011. In a statement by the Commission, the Acting Director-General, Mrs. Aisha Dahir-Umar said: ‘’The Commission wishes to inform stakeholders in the pension industry and the public that its regulatory intervention in First Guarantee Pension, which resulted, among other things, in the appointment of an Interim Management Committee (IMC) to superintend over the affairs of the PFA had been concluded. The intervention was undertaken in August 2011 based on the findings of the Routine and Special examinations carried out by the Commission. “Accordingly, the Commission has handed the PFA over to its reconstituted Board of Directors under the chairmanship of Alhaji Kashim Ibrahim Imam with Hon. Tsegba Terngu, Hon. Ahmed Salik, Dr. Pat Asadu, and Hon. George I. Ozodinobi as members. Concurrently, the Commission has dissolved the Interim Management Committee it appointed on August12, 2011.’’ She added: “The Commission would like to use this medium to assure all clients of the PFA that the company has been returned to normality. The Commission further reassures pension contributors and the public that it is alive to its responsibility of ensuring the safety of the pension industry at all times.’’