 AN international non-governmental organisation, Save the Children International Nigeria, yesterday donated personal protective gears and Infection Prevention and Control equipment to the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja to help protect front-line workers from contracting COVID-19. It was received by the Deputy Director, Health and Human Services Secretariat, Abuja Central Medical Store, Samson Eriba on behalf of the Secretary of the organisation. Save the children said the equipment, which is worth N50 million, will help address the immediate needs of front-line health workers who are providing care and treatment to people affected by the virus, either suspected, probable or confirmed cases. It said the donation will also enhance the Federal Government’s capacity towards containing the spread of the virus and help to sustain the ongoing health care responses to patients already infected by the disease. Interim Country Director, Save the Children International Nigeria, Mercy Gichuhi, said: “During infectious disease outbreaks, children face multi-dimensional risks, including exposure to the infection, indirect risks to accessing education and healthcare services; while the government’s priorities are focused on minimising contamination and direct risks to their overall care and protection.  “It is our responsibility to protect vulnerable children and their families from this disease, and we need to support our government partners who are at the front line in the coronavirus response.” The group explained that the donation was made through the support of the Femi Otedola Fund obtained through his daughter’s foundation, the Cuppy Foundation. The equipment included protective gowns, eye goggles, facemasks, gloves and other vital health supplies, to support the government’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Florence Otedola, popularly known as DJ Cuppy, said: “The most vulnerable Nigerian children and their families are bearing the biggest burden of the COVID-19 pandemic. “We have to ensure that they are protected from catching this deadly virus, especially children who are malnourished or suffering from diseases like pneumonia that is the biggest killer of children. “I am glad to see that many Nigerians are offering their support. Together with my family and The Cuppy Foundation, I am working with the government and Save the Children to provide materials urgently needed to fight the coronavirus.”