On Wednesday, April 29, Nigerian business tycoon and one of the richest black men in the world, Dr. Mike Adeniyi Agbolade Ishola Adenuga, turned 67 with no fanfare and drums rolling in celebration mood. In as much as the Ijebu-Igbo, Ogun state born business tycoon values the gift of life, he would have loved to host his close friends and family. He would have opened the bar for the ceaseless flow of his favourite ‘Kir Royale’ French cocktail laced with crème de cassis topped mixed with champagne or white wine. Instead, he sang praises and showed appreciation to his creator via prayer. It would be unfair for the Forbes rated billionaire to ignore the current pandemic currently ravaging the world. To further show his solidarity and support in fighting the deadly COVID-19 virus to a standstill, he donated a whopping 1.5Billion Naira to the Federal Government. For those who had followed his story with keen interest, they would attest to the fact that during his formative years, he has displayed traits of a man destined for greatness. Although he had a very quiet and modest upbringing, Adenuga unlearned, relearn, and also rebuilt himself to attain the greatness he is destined for. He is one of the very few billionaires in the country who allows the less privileged. He is a man who values his humble beginning. He has adhered strictly to the teaching of his parents, following the popular axiom: “Never burn your bridges, you may need to cross them again”. Adenuga started early in life, knowing fully well that; life is not a bed of roses. From this, he coined one of his favourites quotes; ‘The harder your work, the luckier you get’. He struggled, worked hard and smart before providence granted him his heart desires by making him a young millionaire at age 26, with a source of wealth traced to selling lace fabrics and supply of drinks and provisions before delving into banking, energy, telecommunication, oil exploration, aviation, construction, and real estate. Although he is hardly seen attending public functions or soiree, his presence is felt like a raging storm. A close source revealed that “Dr. Adenuga is a man who values time and loves privacy. He minds his business and has no extra time for frivolities.”