This column has been inundated with requests to comment on the passing of Mallam Abba Kyari. There has been a rash of inquiries about our opinion. Even when this columnist objected that we never met or sighted the late eminent public bureaucrat, notable Nigerians insisted that column-writing is a public obligation not a question of private desire. An irate fellow pointedly asked whether columnist could not make a link between the shoddy nature of the president’s last speech and the fact that the master is missing. Abba Kyari himself was known to have confided in his friends that it was when something happened to him that people will know how crucial he had been to preventing the country from sliding into chaos and ungovernability. It is with public order in mind that this brief intervention is imperative. If we are hoping to build a sane country ruled by rationality and modern ethos, the impact of a public career must not be judged by private testimonies and personal affirmation of sophomoric friendship. The peddlers of this shameful betise are ironically reaffirming how much Nigeria is in the throes of feudal anomie. The politicization of obituary that we have witnessed shows how polarized Nigeria has become and an ironic evidence of how polarizing and divisive a figure the late Kyari himself was. While his numerous friends and admirers lined up to celebrate a man they have always known for his humility, his Spartan self-denial, his kindness and his spectacular acts  thoughtfulness, others demurred while a few went for his jugular. There were also significant silences. When Hanna Arendt, the late Jewish philosopher, arrived in Jerusalem to cover the trial of Adolf Eichmann in 1961, she was so horrified by the ordinariness and provincial mediocrity of the defendant that she wrote an essay titled, The Banality of Evil. When they give their life to a power project of complete domination over other people, ordinary-looking people are capable of acts of extraordinary wickedness and cruelty. The evidence of scandalous preferment, institutional chaos and presidential disorder left behind by Kyari calls for a structured and rational template for that post.