The Prelate of Methodist Church Nigeria, His Eminence Dr. Samuel Uche has cautioned against leadership criticisms. He said Nigerian leaders need more of prathe yers than unecessary criticisms. He said upholding the leaders in prayers would not only bring about behavioral change but produce a nation devoid of corruption, disobedience and impunity. In a message delivered at the 18th Diocesan Synod of the church held at St. Andrew’s Methodist Cathedral, Awada, Onitsha with the theme “Here am I, send me,” Uche also advised leaders to be wary of those who blacklist the country in view of its potent dangers. He said: “Rather than criticising the President, Governors and legislators, we should be praying for them to repent of their sins. “On the other hand, I call on government functionaries to live up to the tenets of religion. When this is done, we would build a godly nation devoid of corruption, disobedience and impunity. “Nigeria is our nation and we must avoid those that blacklist and underate us because of its potent dangers. We can’t be an island in the comity of nations, we should be careful not to attract “World War 3. “If we continue the way we are we could have an implosion and Methodist Church Nigeria will continue to pray that we don’t have an implosion in Nigeria.” Bishop of the Onitsha Diocese, Rt. Rev. Biereonwu Onuagha asked the Federal Government not to contemplate making the menace of Almajiri a national issue. He regretted the infux of the suspected Islamic terrorists to the southern parts of the country, warning that any plans to nationalise the issue would be resisted. He said: “The menace of Almajiri which is part and parcel of Islamic religion should not be made a national issue. “It’s not proper to distribute the evil perpetuated for centuries to innocent people who don’t fashion slavery as mode of life. “Let the manufacturer of Almajiri enjoy, maintain and keep the Almajiri institution. It is not for national consumption and any attempt to make it so shall be resisted. “If these people are looking for greener pasture, they should go to places they should go to places they get the green and the pastures.” According to the cleric, it was not out of place for communities and governments in the region to organise a combing of their surrounding bushes to dislodge those hiding in such places and recover their belongings. On the COVID-19 pandemic, the Bishop listed eight lessons the citizenry had learnt from the scourge, including God’s supremacy over the universe, helplessness of human race, failure of wealth, equality of man, rich or poor, as well as exposing the shortcomings of church administration. 