From: Moses Emorinken, Abuja  The Director-General of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, has revealed that a cumulative of 12,000 contacts across the country have been traced since the beginning of the coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak. Iheakweazu, who spoke at the daily briefing of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 on Friday in Abuja, said that: “Yesterday we tested 2,000 samples, which is the highest number of samples we have tested in a single day across the country and these numbers have been increasing every day. “Despite the challenges across the country, the truth is that samples are coming into our laboratory networks across the entire nation. There are a lot of efforts being made by healthcare workers despite some challenges here and there. “In terms of the number of contacts, we are following up cumulatively about 12,000 contacts across the country from the beginning of the outbreak.” The Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, disclosed the federal government has activated 18 molecular diagnostic laboratories across the country to test for coronavirus (COVID-19). This, he said is in line with the President Muhammadu Buhari’s charge to the Presidential Task Force to aggressively carry out tracing, testing and treatment of coronavirus, and also the ambitious target by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to test 2 million people in three months. According to him, “We have now activated 18 labs nationwide, to increase testing capacity and improve case management. Partners and Nigerians, both home and abroad, are volunteering to serve and support our efforts. But the great tribute I pay today is to the workers of our healthcare system. “Doctors, Nurses, Lab technicians, Scientists, and unsung heroes like cleaners, drivers, clerks and adhoc staff, are the Nigerians in the frontline. Many offices have been working nearly 7 days a week since the outbreak started.” He added: “With regard to Kano, a multi-sectoral team of specialists comprising of NCDC, NPHCDA, Dept. of Hospital Services, Dept. of Family Health, Infectious disease specialists from Irrua, Media, Special Adviser etc., will leave for Kano in the morning to support the State in all areas. “The main focus of the intervention is on training and capacity building of State healthcare workforce along various specialities on a massive scale. On case management, medical, nursing and cleaning staff shall be trained or re-trained, NPHCDA will engage its extensive Kano state network to drive testing demand at grassroots through community mobilization, so that NCDC testing strategy can be realized. “We get complaints about patients suffering from other ailments not being attended to in either private or public hospitals in the era of COVID-19, raising concern for immunization, RMNCH and routine service coverage. A senior official of the Department of Family Health is therefore in the team to help drive continuation of essential health care in both private and public hospitals in Kano.”