 A middle-aged man identified simply as Chukwudi has reportedly died after he was electrocuted. The incident was said to have occurred at Opobo road of the Ogbor Hills axis of the commercial nerve of Abia state. It was gathered that the deceased whose traditional marriage was some weeks ahead after discovering that there was light in his neighbourhood while there was no electricity supply in his apartment started looking for a ladder to apparently switch to the next active line. Reports have it that while he was on the electric pole trying to rectify the problem, electricity was restored back on the former line. “While on top of the pole, he was said to have rested his ladder on an electric-powered barbwire which triggered electric shock when the public power was restored. “He was trapped between the pole and the electrified barbwire, making it difficult for him to escape or even for people to come to his immediate rescue and by the time he was eventually brought down, he was dead,” a source narrated. In another development, a middle-aged man whose name was given as Ugochukwu Egwuatu has been reported killed by his kinsman. The incident was said to have taken place in Ohuhu Nsulu, Isiala Ngwa North Local Government Area of Abia State. Egwuatu was said to have allegedly had some minor squabbles with his kinsman, Chimankpa Nwogu, popularly known in the area as ‘Tallest’ who reportedly nursed animosity against the deceased for some time. It was gathered that Chimankpa, who is now at large allegedly confronted the late Egwuatu at a venue of a traditional marriage where he (deceased) was invited in Ohuhu Nsulu community. A source disclosed that at the venue of the traditional marriage, the duo engaged in a verbal exchange which perhaps was triggered off by their earlier minor misunderstanding. The suspect was said to have during the verbal exchange, inflicted machete wounds on Egwuatu and he bled to death before any help could come his way. Addressing journalists, the younger brother of late Egwuatu, Emmanuel Egwuatu said the family lodged complaints at the Nigeria Police Division in Isiala Ngwa North LGA, expressing displeasure up until now, the killer of his brother has not been arrested. He appealed to security agencies in the state to apprehend the suspect and bring him to book. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) of the State Police command, Geoffrey Ogbonna said he had not been briefed about the incident.