  A POLICE inspector who was part of a security team enforcing the coronavirus curfew in Auchi, Edo State has been killed by a mob. The team was attacked on Friday by unknown hoodlums who fatally shot the inspector. Twelve health workers at the Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital (AKTH) and another one at the University Teaching Hospital (UCH), Ibadan, are among the latest Nigerians to test positive to the virus. Ondo State recorded two more cases on Saturday while Osun and Enugu reported one each. Spokesman for the Edo State Police Command, Chidi Nwabuzor, confirmed the Auchi attack on Saturday. He said: “On Friday, May 8, 2020 at about 9 p.m., Inspector Felix Egbon and team were attacked with guns and other dangerous weapons by unknown hoodlums, who emerged from the bush at Iyetse Quarters, Auchi, while enforcing COVID-19 curfew imposed by the Federal Government of Nigeria from 8 p.m. to 6 a.m. In the process, Inspector Felix Egbon was shot on the neck. He was immediately rushed to the General Hospital, Auchi, where he gave up the ghost. “Consequently, the Commissioner of Police, Edo State Command, Lawan Jimeta, has ordered full-scale investigation into the gruesome murder of the Police Inspector and he solicits for the assistance of the sister security agencies, vigilance group and hunters in the area in arresting the perpetrators. “Edo State Commissioner of Police also pleads with the traditional rulers, village heads and youth leaders to assist in providing information that may lead to fishing out those responsible for the dastardly act. He warns the perpetrators to submit themselves to the police. “Edo State Police Command reiterates its resolve to continually protect the lives and property of the good citizens of the state, in line with its constitutional mandate.” Twelve more workers at the Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital (AKTH) have tested positive for COVID-19, the Joint Health Sector Union (JOHESU) AKTH Branch announced yesterday. Chairman of the branch, Dr Murtala Isa Umar, in a statement listed the affected workers as five nurses, three technicians, one medical information officer, one billing officer and one attendant. Thirteen other workers tested negative, Umar said. Twenty-two JOHESU members who had earlier tested positive for COVID-19 are currently in isolation centres. The story is similar at the University Teaching Hospital, Ibadan, where a worker also tested positive to the deadly virus. The authorities of the hospital said yesterday that the “staff in question is in good health and is receiving the necessary support while the routine contact tracing and relevant infection control protocols instituted. “Consequently as at 4 pm, Friday, 8th May 2020, we have one new case of COVID-19 confirmed. The total number of COVID-19 patients that the hospital has attended to is now 11 (eleven). “Out of these, six patients were managed as in-patients in the isolation unit or other locations in the Hospital, two of which were discharged after being declared free from the virus from results of investigations done. “One patient was however transferred to Lagos for further treatment. Regrettably, two deaths occurred. “Presently, there are three active confirmed cases of COVID-19 being managed by staff of the Hospital. One of these is on admission while the other two are being managed at home.” Four COVID-19 patients have been discharged in Akwa Ibom State while one case has been sent to an isolation centre. Health Commissioner Dominic Ukpong told reporters in Uyo on Friday. He said the confirmation followed the outcome of five of the 31 samples that were sent to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) by the State COVID-19 Management Committee. He said: “we recently tested 31 patients and we have started getting the results. We’ve got five results so far and of the five results, four are actually negative, so we discharged them.” Kano returnee who sneaked into Osun tests positive A resident of Kano State who allegedly sneaked into Osun State is said to have tested positive to coronavirus. Health Commissioner Rafiu Isamotu said  the new case sneaked into Iwo from Kano before his neighbours alerted the State COVID-19 team. There are currently three active cases in the state. He said: “the COVID-19 confirmation test for one suspected case came back positive on Friday out of the 14 samples we sent for testing at the NCDC accredited Testing Centre; the African Centre of Excellence for Genomics of Infectious Diseases, Ede during the week. “The case sneaked into the State from Kano State and the neighbours immediately alerted our COVID-19 team. “Presently, we have three active cases in the State. The good news is that the new case on arrival self-isolated although he wasn’t showing any symptom of the virus.” The Commissioner said a total of 434 tests have so far been conducted at the NCDC accredited Testing Centre, Ede. Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State said on his official Twitter handle yesterday that there were two fresh cases of coronavirus in the state. “We recorded two new cases of #Covid19 in Ondo State. I will be giving details on these new cases during my weekly briefing on Monday,” he said. The new case happens to be another contact of the third case reported in Enugu who had travel history from outside Enugu. The total number of cases reported in Enugu now stands at 10, eight of which are active. The patient has also been admitted for Isolation and Treatment. 