Last week, I focused on the media and Post-COVID-19 realities for the obvious reasons of being a journalist and a stakeholder very concerned about the survival of our industry. It’s indeed a trying time for the media sector, which though plays a crucial role in the development of any society, does not get as much support and understanding from those who should be interested in how well we are doing. With the economic the situation in the country, further complicated by the Coronavirus pandemic, many media organizations are barely surviving and there is no guarantee of how long they can continue to live up to expectations except they get some bailout or waivers. The public can also offer their support by subscribing to print and online copies or donations to offset expense that is becoming unbearable. Beyond the media however, the impact of Coronavirus is general and everyone or sector has to deal with the aftermath in one way or the other. Though it may still be early to start talking of Post COVID-19 when the number of infected persons in the country is rising by the day, the relaxation of some of the restriction of movement measures make it imperative for all to get back to our lives before the lockdown and face the realities we are confronted with. A number of things have become new normal and what is required is to make the necessary adjustment in various aspects of our lives. From all indications, the virus, like others before it, which though may not have recorded as many death cases as early as COVID-19 will remain with us for long even if the much the desired vaccine for treatment is found. So, instead of waiting for when the disease will be totally eradicated, the best option is to learn to live with it. Hopefully, by abiding by all the preventive measures, the rate of infection will slow down and there will be no need for the huge amount and resources being spent to treat patients and curtail the spread. Considering the disruption of businesses and operations of various organizations, many are may not be able to pay their staff and inevitably have to resort to layoffs, forced leave and salary cut to reduce the cost of operations. Workers, especially those in the private sector, should prepare for these wave of survival decisions which may affect their employment status or earnings. They should not wait till they get an official notification before considering what they may need to do. Many may be spared, but no one can be sure who will, based on various considerations. So, like the motto of the Boys Scout, Be Prepared. Work patterns and schedule may also not be the same again for some organizations based on the experience of having staff working from home during the lockdown. The decision to reduce staff may not have to do with cutting cost, but they need to optimise operation using improved technology that may not need as many staff as before. What this means is that staff who are not as technically savvy as they should may not have a place in the new dispensation. Having stayed home for long, returning to the full work mode for some self-employed persons may not be easy, but the reality is that the earlier one gets over the lockdown time the better. Even if one wants to continue work more from home, targets must be set and attained.