Two leading edible processors of palm kernel and soybean oil in Nigeria, Slabmark Nigeria Ltd and Araromi Ayesan Oil Palm have donated items to Ondo Government’s COVID-19 efforts. Slabmark Nigeria Ltd donated cartons of edible vegetable oil while Araromi Ayesan Oil Palm Plc gave 200 cartons of palm oil to support Ondo’s distribution of palliatives to vulnerable residents. The donations were received by Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu,at the Government House, Alagbaka, Akure. Managing Director of Slabmark Nigeria Ltd,, Mr Babatunde Balogun-kuku represented by his wife, Olubunmi, a director in the company, led the team to deliver the items. She said the donation was in line with the vision, mission and corporate social responsibility (CSR) of the company. She was accompanied by Miss Kehinde Balogun-kuku, Mr Collins and Supol Aremu and Baoku Oluwatosin. She said the company has enjoyed great support from the good people of Ondo state. She also called for robust response from well meaning individuals to support the government in its efforts towards the pandemic. Kuku urged the people to always follow the laid down precautionary measures. She said: “In view of the ongoing pandemic which has plagued the world and nation at large, we feel this is one of the best time to give back to the people of Ondo state to assist in relieving the economic strain and pain the pandemic has posed on all the good people of the state.” Chairman of board of Araromi Ayesan Oil Palm Plc, Prince Adetola Adedeji, said the company donated the items to support the government in cushioning the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. He commended the government for steps taken so far to ensure people are safe and accelerate the speedy recovery of the confirmed cases. In company of Prince Adetola was Dr Alonge, Miss Kehinde Balogun-kuku and the GM Mr Kumawoyi. Responding, Akeredolu thanked the companies for the kind gesture, promising that the items will be added to the palliatives that would be distributed to the people of the state. Slabmark Nigeria limited is a core investor in Araromi-Ayesan Oil Palm Plc.