 Following the launch of ‘The Mercy & Ike show’ on  April 26, the Big Brother Naija BBNaija ex-housemates have hinted at tying the nuptial knots. The first edition of the Mercy & Ike show had Ike put rumours to rest by saying he envisions himself committing to marriage with Mercy. Mercy playfully responded by telling him to be sure he was ready to commit before popping the question because she didn’t plan to wear an engagement ring for longer than one month. Before the show kicked off, rumours about Mercy and Ike’s true relationship status have been flying around and the pair seem to have given a hint on their next big step. In the same episode, Ike had visited Mercy, and as they settle down to eat, Ike says that it’s time he met the rest of Mercy’s family, pointing out that Mercy avoided this during their last visit to Owerri. In Ike’s interview session, he revealed that because of their popularity, social media has a lot of impact on their relationship because whatever they do as a couple gets online, and sometimes gets misinterpreted. Mercy didn’t mince words in saying Ike does not know how to manage social media. The show opened with Mercy and Ike reminiscing about their time in the BBN house and how they formed an alliance to ensure that either of them won. It then goes on to draw us deeper into their personal lives. Mercy opens up and talks about growing up in a poor household. At one time, her mother had to sell Akara to support the family, while Mercy would roast corn and sell fuel to make ends meet. ‘My mum used to sell Akara, so from there, she graduated from selling Akara to ‘Mama Put’, so maybe that’s why I know how to cook… Then I used to sell fuel and I roasted corn while helping her.’ She almost broke down in tears when she revealed that while her mother was pregnant with her, she repeatedly tried to lose the pregnancy because of the extreme poverty they faced at that time. Mercy lets us know that that discovery only made her more determined to become successful in life. Ike talked about having a regular upbringing in the United States. Life was going well for him until 2017 when a hurricane in the U.S. affected his business and destroyed the apartment he was living in at that time. The teasers from the next episode show that Ike wants to move in with Mercy, but apparently, there is some resistance to that idea. The Mercy and Ike Show follows the love story of Mercy Eke (winner of the 2019 edition of Big Brother Naija) and Ike Onyeama, another BBN contestant. The pair met and bonded in the BBN house, but the Mercy & Ike show is proof that their love did not end there. 