The former Deputy Governor of Lagos State, Dr Idiat Adebule, Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC), Nasru-Lahi-l-Fatih Society of Nigeria (NASFAT), Zakat and Sadaqat Foundation (ZSF) and Muslim Students’ Society of Nigeria (MSSN) have distributed Eid-il-Fitr package to over 100 journalists. They all called for the protection of journalists in the cause of fighting Coronavirus. According to them, journalists were also on the frontline. They joined Ahmadiyya Muslim Jama’at Nigeria, Chief Executive Officer, DICOLI Nigeria Limited, Alhaji Kayode Awobadejo and Chairman, Talmot Communication Ltd Alhaji Tajudeen Uzamot to sponsor the Eid-il-Fitr Package for members of the Muslim Media Practitioners of Nigeria (MMPN), Lagos State chapter. The food items distributed to journalists include rice, chicken, vegetable oil, Malta Guinness, and provisions. MURIC Director Prof Lakin Akintola, said it was unfortunate that journalists were being exposed to hazards that put them at risk of infection. He called for adequate protection for the pen professionals. MSSN Lagos State Area Unit Amir Dr Saheed Ashafa, hailed journalists for enlightening the populace. According to him, the role of the media in flattening the curve of COVID-19 was enormous. ZSF Executive Director Prince Sulayman Olagunju, said while medical personnel get special kits to protect themselves, journalists were left unattended to. Olagunju said the unfortunate part of the COVID-19 crisis is the daily loss of jobs by the media practitioners. He canvassed a special grant to save the media industry. MMPN Lagos State Chairman Alhaji AbdulKabir Garba thanked the sponsors. Garba said the Eid-il-Fitr Package was in fulfillment of Islamic injunction to give out during Ramadan. “No doubt, Nigerians, including journalists, have been subjected to untold hardships as a result of the outbreak of COVID-19, which eventually led to the lockdown and restriction of movements,” he said. He stressed the need for Muslims to collaborate to ease the affairs of one another at a critical time like this.