Some food vendors in Lagos metropolis yesterday lamented the shortfalls in their sales during the Ramadan. According to them, many people who patronised the food vendors did not show up to buy food for Iftar (breaking of fast) and Sahur (early hour meal). The Nation also observed that not many food sellers engage in the brisk business this year. Usually, between 3am and 6:30am, the streets of Lagos are  busy with food vendors preparing dishes. Many men who don’t have wives at home patronise the food vendors. The food vendors are also the toast of some couples, who find it difficult to wake up in the early hours to cook. Mrs Folasade Ayoola, who sells food on Lagos Island, said she had been incurring debts due to wastage of the meals. “We bought foodstuff and pepper at a higher price in the market, hoping to make good sales from those who are fasting, but the reverse is the case. People are not forthcoming like the previous Ramadan,” she said. According to her, some of the foods were wasted because of poor sales. “I did not sell up to half of what I prepared for the people to break the fast. We had to eat part of it during Sahur and threw away the remaining,” she said. Another food seller in Ilasamaja, Mushin, who simply identified herself as Ajimoh, blamed the outbreak of the Coronavirus  on the poor sales. Popularly called Gbele Pawo, Ajimoh told The Nation that she may stop cooking food for people who want to break their fast if the situation persists. “How much are we making that we continue to incur loss everyday. Since the beginning of Ramadan, I have been wasting the food due to low patronage. The sales at the beginning of this year’s Ramadan are the worst I have witnessed so far. I have been in this business for years. I did not witness something like this in the past,” she said. She prayed that the sales would improve. Mama Aisha, a food vendor in Oshodi, also bemoaned the drop in sales. She said people were complaining lack of money to buy food. “You know, people have been at home for almost a month. Some have lost their jobs in the process. Those who are still working don’t have access to get to their workplaces. I understand the situation at hand, but I don’t think it will get to this level. The sales are pathetic,” Mama Aisha said. She called on the government to give bailout to Nigerians. “Government needs to pump money into the economy. The idea of giving N5,000 to the vulnerable is not working. Many people who have jobs are practically vulnerable because they don’t have the money to buy things,” she said.