Many Nigerians are dying of common ailments because hospitals refuse to attend to people as a result of COVID-19 fear, the government lamented on Thursday. Both private and government health institutions are guilty of this action, leading to patients embracing self-medication. Some private hospitals, especially in Lagos, are doing virtual consultation, in a bid to keep attending to their core patients. Many people have died of “strange ailments” in Kano, Yobe, Zamfara and some other parts of the North. Verbal autopsies conducted did not link many of the deaths to COVID-19. Chairman of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 Control Boss Mustapha said on Thursday that Minister of Health Osagie Ehanire had taken steps to engage managers of government hospitals to end their refusal to attend to patients. Mustapha, who is the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) said: “The PTF has received rather sadly, reports of continued refusal by medical institutions to receive and treat patients for fear of COVID-19. This has resulted in several unfortunate and avoidable fatalities and statistics have shown that there is a drastic drop in the percentage of attention being paid to other ailments not related to COVID-19. “This situation is made worse by the fact that federal tertiary institutions have been mentioned among those rejecting patients for fear of COVID-19. This is not acceptable. We are saddened by this development. “The minister of Health has reached out to all medical directors directing them to continue providing regular medical services so that we do not end up with avoidable deaths. “Truth be told, we are having more deaths from non-attendance to other diseases than even COVID-19. The reason for the greater emphasis on COVID-19 is because it is a pandemic and if not curtailed, it has a capacity of wiping out large segments of our population. “The PTF also urges all the Chief Medical Directors (CMDs) and private health service providers to attend to other health challenges, which continue to confront our people on a daily basis. “Of course, the guidelines for dealing with patients presenting COVID-19 — like symptoms are available and if these are applied by our medical service providers, there would be less risks of exposure to the virus”, he said. The SGF added that the PTF had expanded the scope of collaboration to include the West African community, adding that this became necessary due to the appointment of President Muhammadu Buhari  as the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) champion of COVID-19. “Today, the PTF expanded the scope of collaboration and experience sharing to the ECOWAS Region. This is in keeping with the role of Mr. President as the ECOWAS COVID-19 Champion. “This interface thorough the West Africa Health Organisation (WAHO), will be deepened as part of the short, medium and long-term objectives for controlling the pandemic. “The essence of this regional effort is underscored by the huge population of Nigeria and the trade activities across the borders”, he said. The SGF also said that within the next 70 hours, the PTF would conclude its assessment on the impact of the measures put in place and further recommendations would be submitted to the President for a decision. “While we take necessary steps, the PTF would continue to appeal to Nigerians on the need for taking this fight with utmost diligence. It is for self, it is for your family and it is for the whole community. “On our part, we are sparing no effort in coordinating the national response, collaborating with all necessary stakeholders and supporting sub-national entities in their individual state responses, which we always maintain should be in synergy with the national response,” he said.