Tension is mounting in two communities in Anambra State following the alleged burning of six houses in a renewed hostility in the areas. The incident took place on Saturday night in Allah-Onugwa in Olumbanasa, Anambra West Local Government Area of State. The renewed hostility was between that Community and Odekpe village The fresh crisis came less than three weeks after a bloody clash between the two villages that allegedly left seven persons dead while about 153 houses were equally burnt The clash that ensued on that day according to sources, lasted for over 24 hours . The Nation gathered that the warlords were suspected to have come from one of the villages. However, one of the residents, who pleaded anonymity, alleged that the attackers came from Odekpe. According to him: “They came near our primary school in the morning and started shouting. “Our people kept quiet, nobody confronted them. They later went back. In the evening around 5pm, they came back again. “Our people went to our primary school and waged them not knowing that they had divided themselves in groups. “Some moved in from the front, some went to the back and invaded our community through the bush. “They started burning the remaining houses; so our people ran away. They pursued us to the village that we ran to for safety. That was what happened. Nobody was killed”, he narrated. However, he alleged that throughout the period the battle lasted, policemen did not come to their village to quell the situation In tears on phone, the source llamented his people had fled to their neighbouring Innoma community. Efforts to get reaction from a youth leader in Odekpe village, Mr Ernest Udoba, who had narrated to The Nation their community’s side of the story after the last clash, proved abortive as his line was switched off The State Police Public Relation’s Officer in the Mohammed Haruna, said that the police command had no information about any fresh crisis between the two villages. He said that the joint security forces stationed in the areas had not reported any renewed battle between the two villages. Haruna said, “All I know is that joint security forces are there and they are monitoring the situation. And we have not received any information”.