Rivers State Government has cancelled its former decision to resume lockdown of the capital city, comprising Obio/Akpor and Port Harcourt local government areas, as part of its strategy to contain the spread of the Coronavirus pandemic. The governor, who spoke in a statewide broadcast on Tuesday imposed 8pm to 6am curfew in the 23 local government Areas of the state beginning from June 2 till further notice. He said that his government  uncovered plans by some criminal elements led by one Bobosky to cause security breaches in Khana, Eleme, Gokana, Tai, Oyigbo and Ikwerre local government areas. He said: “After a comprehensive review of the measures taken and further considerations placed before us by well-meaning members of the public, the state security council has decided to cancel the proposed lockdown on Obio/Akpor and Port Harcourt Local Government Areas of the State. “In essence, no part of Rivers State is or will be under any lockdown from this moment and this will be so, except where it becomes necessary again”. He advised residents to strictly observe all protocols and measures put in place to contain the pandemic such the regular washing of hands, religious wearing of face masks and keeping effective physical and social distance of between 1.5 to 2 meters from other people He said residents should completely avoid touching their faces with unwashed hands and ensure that regularly touched surfaces were cleaned as part of effective measures to contain the pandemic. But he said: “All land borders, including all exit and entry routes into Rivers State shall remain closed to human and vehicular traffic, except those on essential services and duly exempted. “All residents must wear face masks or covering into any public space, including our roads, banks, shopping malls, shops, hotels and in any lawful social gathering. “The state task force and the security agencies have been directed to arrest and summarily prosecute any person seen on our streets or any other public place without wearing face masks. “All banks, motor parks, hotels, restaurants, shops, business centres, shopping malls, and offices must maintain social distancing and enforce the wearing of face masks in their premises.”