 The dreaded virus of delay in our criminal justice system appears to have been inoculated by the judgment of the Supreme Court, in the May 8 Orji Uzor Kalu-related matter. Senator Kalu, a former governor of Abia State, his company, Slok Nigeria Ltd, and his former aide, Ude Jones Udeogu, were convicted by a Federal High Court for money laundering and related offences involving the sum of N7.1 billion. The judgment was affirmed by the Court of Appeal on April 24, 2019. The money belonged to Abia State, which Kalu governed from 1999-2007. Following an appeal by Mr Udeogu, that Justice M. B. Idris, JCA, who heard and determined his case came from the Court of Appeal after he was elevated to conclude the matter; the Supreme Court nullified the judgement. The apex court held that upon elevation, Justice Idris seized to have the locus to continue to hear any part-heard matter. It also held that President of the Court of Appeal has no powers to grant Justice Idris a fiat, to hear a matter pending in the Federal High Court. The Supreme Court remitted the matter back to the High Court for a fresh start. The matter has been in court since 2007. We also recall that it was in response to public outrage, over the inexcusable delays in our nation’s criminal justice system, that the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA), was enacted in 2015. Section 396(7) of the act, provides: “Notwithstanding the provision of any other law to the contrary, a judge of the High Court who has been elevated to the Court of Appeal shall have dispensation to continue to sit as a High Court Judge, only for the purposes of concluding any part-heard criminal matter, pending before him at the time of his elevation and shall be concluded within reasonable time, provided that this section shall not prevent him from assuming duty as a Justice of the Court of Appeal.” That section has been declared unconstitutional and invalid by the Supreme Court in Udeogu vs EFCC and 2 others. Even though not the appellant, Senator Kalu and Slok Nigeria Ltd. are latching on the judgment to seek a temporal reprieve. Rightly, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and majority of Nigerians feel offended that after over 10 years trial and the huge resources spent, the apex court relied on undue technicality to reach such a harsh conclusion. Of course, the judgment has very grave implications for the nation’s criminal justice system. At the last count, it was reported in the media that about 50 decided cases may be affected by the judgment of the Supreme Court. In some of the cases, it is the accused persons who applied for a fiat that a judge should conclude a part-heard matter that can now turn around to benefit from the judgment of the Supreme Court. Interestingly, the apex court did not look at the merits of the conviction, in its judgment. While the Supreme Court may have given a succinct legal justice, it has failed woefully to deliver social justice. Again, the judgment may have done incalculable harm to the psyche of the proverbial common man, who may consider it a travesty. For such a common man, the question would be: how can a legal system be so wasteful and tilted to the benefit of the rich and mighty, who employ legal shenanigans to evade justice? Furthermore, how can a legal system fail to take into account social justice, but would rather rely on dry technicalities? If we may ask, has the Supreme Court shot the justice system in the foot? 