The Federal Government has raised the alarm that some individuals are determined to sabotage the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS). Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS) is believed to have saved ?361 billion that could have been paid to corrupt civil servants. The Office of the Accountant General of the Federation (OAGF) raised the alarm yesterday in statement from Abuja. The OAGF was reacting to reports that it had paid Armed Forces their April, 2020 salaries. According to the OAGF, “the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS) Department in the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation confirmed that as at Friday May 8, 2020, the Armed Forces personnel had been paid.” The OAGF said the delay “in the salary payment was due to the unexpected lockdown in the country, which led to late submission of variations by the agencies concerned and the need to accommodate their inputs in the April payroll accordingly.” It was alleged that the April 2020 salary of military and paramilitary personnel was delayed “as a result of incapability and inexperience of the operators of the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS).” However,  “officials of the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS) had given assurance that the salaries would be paid between 4th and 8th May, 2020” before the allegations became public. The OAGF lamented that “such report has the potency to incite the Armed Forces and the public against the operations of the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS).” It added that “workers of the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation (OAGF) and the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS) are competent professionals, who have demonstrated the will and capacity to get the job done.” This, the OAGF noted, is “despite distractions and opposition from some quarters, whose objectives is to sabotage the government policy that has saved the nation over N361 billion.”