The board of Mutual Benefits Assurance Plc has assured that the company has capacity to maintain stable operations over the long-term irrespective of the impact of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. In a regulatory filing at the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), directors of the company assured stakeholders and customers of the stability of the company in the long-term, irrespective of the impact of the Coronavirus pandemic across the country. According to the company, it has implemented some measures to ensure that its business operations remain stable while monitoring developments closely as they unfold to ensure continued sustainability as well as delivering of long-term value to stakeholders. The company noted that the economic impact of pandemic on its business in first quarter 2020 was quite minimal, although the bigger concern remains the effect of the pandemic on the macro-economic environment, especially, underwriting profits, investment income and growth prospects. Mutual Benefits stated that it would continue to review the trends and share insights on the impact of COVID-19 on micro and macroeconomic indices to enable its clients and other stakeholders make good business and personal decisions that may help during and after the pandemic. “We have leveraged technology to enable our customers carry out their business transactions with us unhindered. We had proactively activated remote working for our core operations staff ahead of the lockdown as a responsible corporate citizen in keeping with global health protocols on social distancing,” Mutual Benefits stated in the filing signed by its Company Secretary, Jide Ibitayo. The company outlined that it had activated remote working for its staff in order to ensure that the needs of its stakeholders are met regardless of the lockdown and restriction of movements. “This has greatly enabled our business to continue with minimal disruption and our investments in ICT over the years have not been in vain. We have also received the assurance of our support service providers who have also continued to operate remotely to meet our needs which gives us assurance that our operations will not be materially impacted,” Mutual Benefits stated. The company expressed optimism that Nigeria will come out of the pandemic a stronger and healthier nation.