 The management of celebrity hangout, O’Jez Entertainment recently distributed 10,000 face masks and food to indigents in Lagos to curb the widespread of coronavirus and cushion the effect of the lockdown. The feeding programme, according to O’Jez management, is targeted at indigent Nigerians who are most affected by the lockdown in the state as a consequence of the lockdown. The CEO of O’Jez Entertainment, Joseph Odobeatu said it was in line with the CSR objectives of O’Jez Entertainment and the directive of the Lagos State government. “Whether we like it or not, the coronavirus pandemic will be with us for a while and it has had devastating effects on the global economy and Nigeria is not left out. Lagos has been under lockdown for over a month now and in the above light, the need to reach out to indigent Nigerians through this feeding programme and the free distribution of 10, 000 face masks cannot be over-emphasised”, he said. “Ever since the lockdown, we have been feeding a minimum of 300 indigent Nigerians daily at the National Stadium and its environs. We have been feeding the challenged athletes here in the stadium as well. The lockdown has brought untold hardship and bringing relief to Nigerians should not be left to government alone hence we at O’Jez Entertainment have used this opportunity to reach out and lighten the burden of our fellow Nigerians.” Commending the Lagos State governor’s reaction to the coronavirus crisis and the contributions of the Presidential task Force in ameliorating the impact of Covid 19 he continued: “Let me use this opportunity to thank the Presidential Task Force on Covid 19 and the Lagos State governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu for his prompt response to the health crisis. We believe that sooner or later, this would be over and we shall return to our businesses. But meanwhile, Nigerians should stay face by adhering strictly to the rules of the lockdown. Nigerians should please stay safe and observe the regulations of the lockdown. And that is why we are giving out 10, 000 face masks to help Nigerians protect themselves at these most trying times.”