A governorship aspirant in the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ondo State, Mr. Isaacs Kekemeke, has said he has no plans to step down from the governorship race either for Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu or any other aspirant. Kekemeke, a former commissioner for Justice and Attorney-General, said he is a serious-minded person that does not change his mind once he sets his mind to achieve a goal. Speaking with reporters at his campaign office in Akure, Kekemeke said he was not one of those serial contestants planning to step down on understanding that power would shift to Ondo South in 2024. He said he was not a fan of zoning, adding that the people of Ondo State deserved the most competent person to do the job at every particular time. Kekemeke said that it was a disservice to the state for aspirants to insist that their only qualification for leadership of the state was where they came from at a particular time. The former attorney-general said Ondo State people “deserve the best to lead them at this unusual time, adding that no persons have ever determined through zoning who becomes governor. He said Ondo people have through their votes always decided who becomes governor and then it is counted for the zone the governor comes from. On why he wants Akeredolu’s job, Kekemeke said he has a vision to create a prosperous and peaceful state where the citizens will be productively engaged to enable them live a meaningful, comfortable and decent life. “I want that job so that we can create an environment for the citizens to thrive. We want to use ICT to maximally impact government resources on the human capital development and natural endowment to create wealth. I want to be governor so that for once over a long time we can put the people first and every action or inaction of the government will be determined by the best interest of the majority of the people. “I want children to have free and compulsory education. I want to create quality and affordable health care. I want that job so that we can feed ourselves. The N10billion we expend on food stays here. I want to create agro-allied industries. I want to explore the tourism potential. I want our people to feel in a direct way and direct manner the impact of the government,” he said. Kekemeke said the rancour within the APC in the state was caused by refusal by the powers that be to provide a level playing field and not individual aspiration. 