Wrinkles are a natural part of the aging process. With age, our skin gets thinner, drier and we lose elastin. The ability for our skin to protect itself is reduced as we age. While it’s very natural for one’s skin to develop wrinkles due to advancement in age, one can delay the “wrinkle-like appearance” by practicing healthy lifestyle. There are plenty of things one can start doing, and stop doing, to start aging gracefully. Here are the few things to do: 1. Stop smoking — Smoking is one oc the worst habits that can possibly affect one’s skin. It makes one look years older, makes the skin dry and sallow looking, gives one age spots, and adds a ton of wrinkles to one’s face, especially around the eyes and lips. Smoking deprives one skin of oxygen and nutrients. 2. Drink water — Moisture is essential for maintaining healthy skin, and it also helps rid one’s body of toxins. When the skin is properly hydrated it looks healthy and radiant. However, drinking water doesn’t have an immediate effect on your skin. Proper hydration is important for long-term health, but it offers few short-term gains. 3. Eat more fruits and vegetables — Fruits and vegetables contain many of the vitamins and minerals our skin needs to stay healthy. For instance, vitamin C (an antioxidant) is known to be essential in the production of collagen. It’s also important to eat foods rich in other antioxidants. 4. Avoid excessive use of cosmetics — Instead of battling wrinkles with expensive creams and medical procedures, one can make use of natural remedies. There is no need to spend a lot of money on some miracle moisturizer, either. More expensive doesn’t mean more effective. You can apply your household olive oil directly to your skin – it’s natural, hydrating, and wallet-friendly. 6. Get adequate sleep — While we sleep, our body produces human growth hormone, which increases cell reproduction and turnover. This is what leaves one’s complexion radiant and refreshed. On a final note, to get a good facial appearance, one has to be gentle with his/her skin, especially the skin on our face. Because it’s so thin and delicate, scrubbing it hard or drying it vigorously with a towel pulls on the muscles which, over time, will lead to sagging skin. Instead, wash gently and pat dry softly.