Irate youths of  Elugwu Ettam Community in Okpuitumo Ikwo Local government area of Ebonyi state at the weekend set ablaze the country home of Celestine Okah. Okah is the husband of Ebonyi Commissioner for Housing and Urban Development, Wendy Uchechi Okah. According to a source, the incident happened on Saturday. The source said Okah was accused of involvement in some crimes in the community, which he vehemently denied. His denials did not stop his summoning by the community’s village head who ordered him to swear an oath to prove his innocence in keeping with the customs and traditions of the community. But, Okah, it was gathered, refused to swear to the oath. He instead resorted to calling the attention of the Police. His refusal and involvement of the Police infuriated the youths around who pounced on him before moving to the location of his house where they vandalised and set the property ablaze. Not done, the youths proceeded to burn another building belonging to another member of the community whose child is named after the Commissioner By the time the Police got to the scene, the destruction had been carried out. But they succeeded in rescuing Okah and whisked him out of the area. The community, it was learnt, warned the Police to take Okah out of the community, warning him not to enter the community again. Police Spokesman, Loveth Odah confirmed the incident. She said the Police was able to rescue the victim. Mrs. Odah noted that when the Police went back on Sunday, the Community dug a deep trench to prevent them from accessing the community. She noted that the Police was able to restore order in the area and have warned the community to toe the line of peace to settle whatever dispute they may have with the victim. The victim whereabout could not be ascertained at press time. Calls to his Phone lines were not answered. His wife and Commissioner for Housing and Urban Development, Mrs Uchechi Wendy Okah, refused to react on the issue when our reporter called her on phone. “I don’t want to make any comment for now,” said the Commissioner in an emotion- laden voice. Commissioner for Internal Security and Border Peace, Stanley Okoro Emegha wondered why the community would take the laws into their hands. He said the State Government has waded into the matter with a view to amicably settling the matter.