The Ultimate Fighting Championship became the first major sports broadcast to return amid the coronavirus outbreak. Let’s take a look back at the success of the UFC’s one week, three event showcase spent in Jacksonville, Florida, and take a sneak peek at the next event scheduled, Fight Night 176: Woodley vs. Burns. UFC 249 & Fight Night in Jacksonville, Florida The UFC was the first major sporting event that returned to action this past week, not just once, but three times. Yes, you heard it right, and unless you’ve been living under a rock you’d be more than aware of the situation. UFC President Dana White booked up the VyStar Memorial Arena in Jacksonville, Florida for three nights of mixed martial arts action. The first event took place on Saturday evening, and also drew some high numbers for ESPN+, UFC 249 became one of the most stacked cards of the year, with each fight from start to finish providing a high profile name, and it was bound for success. The second event took place just four days before UFC 249, and for the first time, on a Wednesday night. Two former title challengers, for Jon Jones coveted light heavyweight championship; in Anthony ‘Lionheart’ Smith and Glover Teixeira, headlined the Fight Night event. UFC fanatics were truly handed a week of MMA action they’d never forget. And, just when you thought there couldn’t be any more fight action, the UFC’s third and final event (Fight Night 174) was the main attraction on the following Saturday night from when UFC 249 took place. The legend that is Alistair Overeem made his 64th professional martial arts appearance, standing opposite the cage from him was devastating knockout artist Walt Harris. Another UFC main event delivered and with all but 1 case of coronavirus, Dana and the UFC successfully held three events with health & safety precautions that seemingly worked like a charm. “It feels good,” UFC president Dana White told reporters at the post-fight news conference. “I’m happy to have it behind me. It was successful in every way it could be successful. I feel great about it. More importantly, nobody is sick. Nobody has gotten sick. There’s no guarantee in life, but hopefully, that’s the case and we all go home. It was a great event. It was a great week.” “We worked hard to pull this thing off and to get here. Nothing means more to me than the safety of everybody who was involved in the event. Not just with COVID-19, but a fight that wasn’t stopped soon enough – all these types of things,” he said. “Every time we finish an event, I want everybody to go home safe. It’s not any different now with the COVID-19 thing. We will do everything in our power, we will spend the money, we will get the best, the brightest, and we will talk to doctors and experts in the field to figure out how to beat it. “One of the things I always do is believed that nothing is impossible. Everything can be done, especially in 2020. You have to be willing to work hard enough, spend some money and come up with solutions, and that’s what we did this week. White told MMA media. “We’re rolling now. If we can’t get May 30th at the APEX, it’s going to be super disappointing, but we will go somewhere else.” UFC President Dana White was originally hoping that Nevada would’ve lifted restrictions before the week in Florida came to an end, allowing him to move forward with the scheduled Fight Night event on the 23rd of May. The UFC Apex center will be the temporary home, but not until Nevada lift the restrictions. The May 23rd event has been rescheduled for May 30th, whilst UFC 250 will take place on the first of June. Tyron Woodley vs. Gilbert as been booked as the headliner for Fight Night 176 on the 30th of May, although no location has been disclosed, Dana White has confirmed they will 100% find somewhere to host. The former UFC welterweight champion and well-known personality, Tyron Woodley, will make his walk through the empty arena in either Nevada or Arizona depending on the response time of Las Vegas athletic commission.  Which main event was your favorite from Florida?  pic.twitter.com/eMqcWZ4p2M — UFC (@ufc) May 19, 2020 Woodley held the welterweight title before Kamaru Usman was able to match the grappling strength that Woodley utilized so often in his bouts and was able to avoid the winging hands. We’ve seen Woodley outside of the octagon than we have in, and since his loss, we’re yet to witness his return. Finally, that comes to an end at UFC Fight Night 176. Her opponent, Gilbert Burns, has made quickly made his way through the welterweight division after moving up from the 155-pound lightweight class. And, the 3 fight win streak and a TKO victory over Demian Maia has put the Brazilian on course for a title shot, but before we speak too soon, he has to make his way through the former champ in Tyron Woodley. So, as we approach this fight from a betting perspective, what are we looking for? The value is the priority and currently, the odds available are rapidly declining. The Woodley opening line was -140 and has quickly drifted to -171. An early sign that the public is very interested in the former UFC welterweight champion, and at first glance, I agree. Although the price I drifted I still find value in Woodley, I don’t envision Burns being able to out-grapple the dominant wrestler in Woodley, leaving him being able to dictate where the fight takes place. I’d be happy to make a wager on Tyron Woodley up until -180, beyond that point; the value starts to decrease in my opinion. UFC Fight Night 176 will take place on the 30th of May and will be live on ESPN+.