A pocket-sized coronavirus test kit produced in Senegal offers hope to poor countries battling with challenges of mass testing in the face of escalating infections, reports Associate Editor ADEKUNLE YUSUF From testing to management of cases, it is no longer a secret that Nigeria is facing enormous challenges in its bid to contain the spread of ravaging coronavirus. After several weeks of official assurances that all is being done to ensure the fight against the virus is not bogged down by hiccups, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has finally admitted that paucity of test kits may undermine the country’s efforts to win the battle. In a tweet on Sunday, Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, NCDC Director-General, disclosed that the country was desperately in need of more ribonucleic acid COVID-19 test kits. According to the NCDC boss, this became necessary because the country has expanded testing for the virus. “We’re desperately looking for more RNA extraction kits as we expand #COVID19 testing. Product: Total viral RNA extraction kits (preferably spin column and with a lysis buffer). Manufacturers: Qiagen, ThermoFischer, SeeGene, Inqaba, LifeRiver etc,” he said. However, from reports in the medical world, Nigeria may not have to search too far before finding a solution to its test kit problem, as a fellow West African country, Senegal, appears to be leading the way in the production of test kits that is cheaper and can produce results in minutes. Without much of a health budget like Nigeria, Senegal is now hailed internationally for controlling the novel coronavirus. From early-detection mobile kits to 3D-printed ventilators, experts are saying Senegal is demonstrating a possible model in curbing COVID-19. Relying on the experience of managing the Ebola outbreak, a Senegalese institute has developed $1 COVID-19 testing kit that can produce result in just 10 minutes. It was first reported in March that a Senegalese lab, Institut Pasteur de Dakar, was working round the clock to develop very affordable and easy to use COVID-19 testing kit – an effort that has finally yielded results. The institute achieved this feat by drawing from a wealth of experience gathered from developing vaccines and treatments for several ailments, including yellow fever and dengue. The testing kit was developed in collaboration with Mologic, a British biotech company. However, the COVID-19 test kits won’t be ready for distribution until June, after necessary testing must have been concluded. Besides being cheaper and faster in producing results, the new testing kit can be used at home for a simple test using the saliva or a blood sample of the individual. Similar to how a pregnancy test kit works, a bloodline appears to indicate the presence or absence of the COVID-19 antibody. With $1 quick diagnostic testing kits and an 3D-printed ventilator that costs $60 compared with an imported one that could cost $16,000, Senegal has come up with innovative solutions that can change the narrative in the war against COVID-19. What the new test kit means in the battle to contain the virus is that low-income countries, especially African ones with poor health infrastructure, now have hope. Because the test kit will simplify the testing, the test that can be done anywhere, which means there is no need for elaborate laboratory infrastructure. Part of Senegal’s response to the pandemic is said to come from its engineers who have developed a process of using 3D technology to print out ventilators and make them available at $60. This is relatively cheap compared to the $16,000 which is the cost of imported ventilators. According to researchers behind the new test kit, Senegal hopes to produce two to four million test kits – not just for itself but also for African countries so that the whole continent can detect and isolate the virus quickly before it does maximum damage to vulnerable countries. As the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in Nigeria continues to rise with no vaccine or treatment yet, the most pressing call of action still remains to test and isolate detected cases early. However, with a population of 195.9 million and a fragile health system, solutions like Senegal’s COVID-19 testing kits that can be used at home without necessarily stressing health workers. In their daily press briefing, members of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 have always assured that the country’s testing capacity will soon be upgraded to cope with exigencies in a country with 1,273 confirmed cases (as at Sunday) and still counting. In this regard, it was recently announced that Nigeria has increased its molecular laboratories to 13 within a short time. The NCDC DG had promised that the country would increase its testing capacity to 4000 per day across the country with 2000 samples to be done per day in Lagos State, fuelling fears that the country would soon run into the crisis of lack enough kits to test suspected cases for COVID-19. As global shortages of diagnostic kits and laboratory consumables increasingly impacts the optimal functionality of the laboratory system in Nigeria and across the world, NCDC has adopted an adaptive testing strategy to ensure the most vulnerable persons, those at elevated risk, and those with super spreading potential have access to testing. Amid increasing public criticisms that the country is not responding to demands of those desperately in need testing services, many public figures have complained that Nigeria is carrying out fewer testing that necessary – leaving many embattled citizens in dire straits. From the PTF chairman, Boss Mustapha to its national coordinator Dr. Sani Aliyu to the NCDC DG to the Minister of Health Dr. Ehanire, Nigeria has prioritised testing as one of the key strategies to its COVID-19 response, believing that diagnostic testing needs to be scaled up as rapidly as possible to cover all 36 states plus the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) in order to contain the outbreak. Diagnostic testing is an essential response strategy to interrupt the transmission for the COVID-19 pandemic by informing patient management and identifying positive cases, which can then be isolated. In Africa, Nigeria, with a far higher population, tests fewer than many smaller countries – as at last Sunday. With 1,273 confirmed cases and a population of over 200 million, Nigeria has done about 10,061 tests since it recorded its index case on February 27. For example, Ghana, with 1,550 confirmed cases and a population of 30.9 million people (slightly higher than the population of Lagos, Nigeria’s economic nerve centre, which now serves as the country’s epicenter of coronavirus cases), has carried out 100,622 tests. Same goes for Djibouti, with 1,023 confirmed cases and a population of 985,433, which has conducted 11,741 tests; or Kenya, with 355 confirmed cases and a population of 53.5 million, which has done 17,492 tests. Even South Africa, with 4,361 confirmed cases and a population of 59.1 million, has conducted 161,000 tests; while Egypt, with 4,319 confirmed cases and a population of 101.9 million, has done 90,000 tests. What it means is that the testing kits cater particularly to the needs of Africa on key areas including price, limited know-how required, availability and other technical requirements. Will Nigeria borrow a leaf from Senegal’s innovation and deploy a research team to understudy the COVID-19 testing kits being developed at the IPD in collaboration with Mologic?