 The relative peace in Ishielu local government area of Ebonyi may have been broken with the killing of two persons in Umuhuali community on Wednesday. The victims of the crisis include a 13 years old boy, Izuchukwu Promise of Ezza Umuhuali and a 50 years old man, Emeka Nwannaji, of Umuhuali. The Nation gathered that Izuchukwu had gone to the forest to fetch firewood where he had an altercation with Emeka. It was further gathered that Emeka in the process killed Izuchukwu. The murder of Izuchukwu, who is from Ezza Umuhuali community angered youths of the area who attacked and killed Emeka. It was gathered that youths of both communities clashed followed the killings leading to destruction of some properties. A source told our correspondent that the Nkalagu – Eha-Amufu – Ikem – Nsukka federal road that passed the two communities was blocked on two sides by the two communities preventing motorists from accessing their respective communities. Police Spokesman, Loveth Odah confirmed the incident. According to her, the youths of Ezza Umuhuali took laws into their hands by matcheting Emeka to death. She said the Police Command on getting the report swung into action by sending patrol teams to the area to restore normalcy. “Police have launched investigations into the incident. We urged the people to remain calm. People should not take laws into their hands but seek for justice by reporting to the Police,” she said. She said the Acting Police Commissioner, DCP Yekini Ayoku has visited the area and have promised that Police will investigate the incident and prosecute all those involved. Chairman of the local government area, Henry Eze confirmed the incident. He said certain political interests in the area are trying to unsettle the peace in n the area which the state government have worked hard to achieve. “We are resolving the issue. There is no cause for alarm. Government has waded into the matter,” he said. It will be recalled that Ezillo community, headquarters of Ishielu Local Government Area and Ezza-Ezillo had in 2012 engaged in a communal war that claimed scores of lives including strangers who were caught on the web of the crisis. 