The current crisis rocking the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Osun State is not unconnected with the 2022 governorship election in the state. The battle between the camp of the eventual winner of the PDP primary in 2018, Senator Ademola Adeleke, and the runners up, Akin Ogunbiyi, the Chairman of Mutual Assurance caused a  great disaffection before the warring camps were reconciled. The reconciliation, however, was superficial as accusations and counter-accusations fill the air after the governorship poll, which was controversial. The APC candidate, Gboyega Oyetola, was declared the winner and the polarisation of the opposition party has remained since then. Party members have been pointing accusing fingers to one other, faulting and upholding the candidature of Senator Adeleke. Some alleged that the primary election was rigged while other opined that despite the support Ogunbiyi got from the party chairman, Hon. Soji Adagunodo, how can the process be rigged? There are allegations from the camp of Adeleke that the suspended Chairman, Soji Adagunodo, did not support Adeleke then and that he has started working for the emergence of Ogunbiyi in 2022. Those in the camp of Ogunbiyi are also accusing Deji Adeleke of scheming to ensure that his brother, emerges the PDP candidate again in the next poll.  Adeleke is accused of conniving with some officials of the PDP at the national level to impose his brother on the party again. But this is being opposed by the opposing camp who believe that the alleged baggage which cost Adeleke and the party victory in the last poll will still work against him if he is nominated in the next election. Since the Supreme Court pronounced Adegboyega Oyetola the winner of 2018 election, the party has thrown itself into rivers of crisis hoping that things will get better as time goes by. Recently, the former governor of Osun State, Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola, 2018 gubernatorial candidate of African Democratic Congress, Alhaji Fatai Akinbade, Osun State Chairman of Social Democratic Party, Bayo Faforiji and others numbering to 50 joined the party to form a formidable force against the ruling party but nevertheless, the unending crisis is getting the party’s 2022 vision blurry. One of the reconciliation meetings held that the party secretariat in Osogbo on between the supporters of Senator Adeleke and Ogunbiyi ended in disarray as some suspected thugs invaded the meeting, disrupted process and injured some attendees. The PDP in Osun is embroiled in a crisis of leadership and it is believed to be connected to the 2022 governorship election in the state. The party chairman, Soji Adagunodo was suspended over the allegation of malfeasance, maladministration and anti-party activities laid against him as the National Working Committee directed the deputy chairman, Sunday Akanfe to act in his capacity.