It appears  the Federal  Government does not want to leave any stone unturned in its quest for solution to the novel coronavirus pandemic which has thrown the world off balance since December, last year, when it surfaced in Wuhan, China.  Since then, it has claimed at least 318,830 lives globally, while 1,889,098 of its 4,865,135 confirmed cases have been treated and discharged. Nigeria has about 6,175 confirmed cases, out of which 191 have died; and about 1,644 recovered. The pandemic has led to the dislocation of all activities – social, political and economic – taking a huge toll on crude oil, the country’s mainstay. Billions of public funds have been spent on provision of testing and isolation centres, personal protective equipment (PPEs) and other facilities to contain the spread of the disease as well as cater to the needs of COVID-19 patients scattered all over the country. These are aside provisions made by public-spirited individuals, corporate organisations, religious and non-governmental bodies in support of governments’ efforts. Fears that figures of confirmed cases will  continue to rise, the uncooperative attitude of some Nigerians who ignore the most basic precaution like wearing of face masks and social distancing, as well as governments’ inability to sustain long periods of lockdown as in some other economies have all combined to aggravate government’s anxiety to look for cure to the disease, wherever such exists or is believed could be found. One such places is Madagascar which has told the world that it has found a cure for the disease. Also, the Federal Government has asked herbal and medical practitioners with cure claims to submit same to the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) for examination and verification. Of note is the Madagascan drug which the country’s president, Andry Rajoelina, launched about four weeks ago. The drug, branded COVID Organics was produced by Malagasy Institute of Applied Research. Rajoelina said the drug contains Artemisia, a plant cultivated in the country to treat malaria. The drug has finally arrived the country and should about now be undergoing the validation processes by the appropriate government agency. Much as we align ourselves with the position of the World Health Organisation (WHO), and some Western countries that for any drug to be certified as cure for coronavirus, such must be tested and its efficacy and safety confirmed, we have nothing against making our independent inquiries about cure claims with a view to seeing if there is any of them that we may find suitable. The most important thing is the instruction by the president to the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustafa, who is also Chairman, Presidential Task Force on COVID -19, that such drugs should be subjected to the validation process similar to what obtains  with other medicines, syrups or vaccines created locally. The truth of the matter is that we cannot fold our hands or wait for the West or any organisation in our search for a cure for coronavirus. It is instructive that in the last few months of the pandemics, some of our higher institutions have been coming up with one invention or the other, from automatic hand-washing tools to PPEs, face masks, ventilators, etc. They may not be as sophisticated as the ones made abroad, what is important is their efficacy. Moreover, irrespective of criticisms against local herbs, our country is rich in them and nothing stops us from researching into the possibility of using some of these for coronavirus. For instance, the Artemisia plant that was used to produce the Madagascan drug is said to be available here. Our problem is not necessarily lack of expertise in many fields but lack of encouragement by the government. After all there are many Nigerians that are making waves in all fields of human endeavour abroad. What they lack at home is encouragement. We have research institutes that are not funded for research, yet they get annual subventions to pay salaries! If it would take COVID-19 to bring out the best in us, so be it. Let us not despise any coronavirus cure claim in so far as it is not a frivolous claim. We are happy that the Central Bank of Nigeria ( CBN) has recognised the lacuna in funding research and has responded appropriately by challenging Nigerian researchers, science institutions and biotechnology firms to develop local vaccines to manage COVID-19, with a promise to develop a framework to support such with grants and long-term facilities. We urge those concerned to grab the opportunity with both hands.