Princess Racheal Adefunke Wellington is no stranger to pandemics. The 102-year-old tells OYEBOLA OWOLABI that the war against Coronavirus can be won with herbs and roots, whish, she said, helped Nigerians against the Spanish Flu When the Spanish Flu pandemic broke out in 1918, many thought the end of life had come. However, life continued afterwards, and the world has witnessed many other outbreaks, the COVID-19 pandemic being the most recent. Professionals have described the Coronavirus strain as new, but a centenarian, Princess Racheal Adefunke Wellington, does not see anything new or novel about the COVID-19 disease. “One sickness, disease or plague leads to another one. With enough research, you realize it’s only a circle; they are always offshoots of each other. Though they might come from different causes and with different symptoms, they are similar,” she said. Princess Wellington witnessed the Spanish Flu and has experienced other scary outbreaks. According to her, she and others survived using herbs and maintaining good hygiene. She is therefore optimistic that with the proper use of herbs, Coronavirus can be defeated. The centenarian berated those condemning calls by Ooni of Ife Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi that greater attention should be given to the use of herbs. She lamented that ignorance about the potency of our natural herbs was making Africa look for help where there was none. She said: “I was mostly in Nigeria during these pandemics and we survived using herbs. These diseases spread mostly through people who returned from war and transmitted it everywhere in the world. Some of these diseases are caused by animals and our dirty lifestyles. Children and the aged were the most affected. “So many things will change, which is why Coronavirus has come. It is a deadly disease. When Coronavirus came, I said good news. No more boisterous lifestyles as people now hide in their homes. However, congratulations to Africa; we are a region of agriculture and more than three-quarter of the world’s wealth is in Africa. We also have the herbs to control Coronavirus after which we will swing into action for this new life and tap into the resources ourselves, not inviting foreigners to do it for us. Africa is a strong nation of strong people but we need more knowledge, education and love; we need to forget about bad politics, money politics and rigging and chose a real government that will bring Africa to light,” she added.