 TUFACE 2Baba Idibia and Banky W will join 15 other entertainers across Africa for a charity concert tagged Hope for Africa concert. The concert, which is scheduled for May 31, is one of the efforts of Multichoice and One Africa Global Foundation to support the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic in Africa. Other entertainers across Africa expected to join the leading Nigerian music stars include Akothee, Betty G, CIC, Cobhams Asuquo, Dakore Egbuson-Akande, Denola Grey, Diamond Platnumz, Eddie Jay, Jahprazah, Jeff Maximum, Kyee Benda, Osas Ighodaro, Princess Jnap Sessay, Praiz, and Waje. The entertainers are billed to give goodwill messages of hope and encouragement to every African, from the comfort and safety of their homes during the concert on Sunday, May 31st on Africa Magic Family channel. Speaking on the partnership, Chief Executive Officer, MultiChoice Nigeria, John Ugbe, said, “As Africa’s biggest storyteller, we are committed to giving back to the communities where we operate. We are passionate about the development of the African continent as we continue to use the power of entertainment to give hope, enrich lives, and bring people together especially during these uniquely difficult times. This is why we are partnering with the One Africa Global Foundation to broadcast the COVID-19 Hope For Africa Concert in more than 49 countries across Sub-Saharan Africa.” The 3-hour televised special will feature performances by top African music artistes as well as appearances by media icons and other prominent personalities on the continent. Meanwhile, the Chief Executive Officer, One Africa Global Foundation, Paul Okoye said the funding raised from the concert will be dedicated to ensuring the safety and wellbeing of health care professionals across the continent who are on the front lines in the fight against the virus. These funds, Okoye further said, will be used as special interventions for accessible, functional medical equipment, COVID testing stations and Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to minimize exposure to the virus.