 The President and Chairman of Council, Nigerian Institute of Management (Chartered), Mrs. Patience Anabor, has described Engr. Ibrahim Inuwa, the Deputy President of the Institute, who passed on recently as a great asset. Expressing sadness and shock at the sudden passing of the Institute’s Deputy President, Anabor said Inuwa whom she worked closely with was as “a very humble and loyal ally”. She revealed that she was in constant contact with him and even exchanged WhatsApp messages with him a few hours before he passed on. She further stated “throughout the period of lockdown in Lagos occasioned by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, Engr. Inuwa always called or sent text messages to me on daily basis enjoining me to stay home and stay safe.” She added: “Although Engr. Inuwa was an accomplished engineer and a distinguished professional manager, he never wore his success on his forehead.” While praying for the repose of his soul, Anabor said that “the demise of Inuwa was a great loss to the Institute. He was “a successful manger of men and materials who was very committed to and very passionate about the Institute.” Registrar/Chief Executive of the institute, Tony Fadaka, said “anyone who associated with Engr. Inuwa can tell you what a great man he was. He was always optimistic, never short of wise pieces of advice and opinion, and very quick to understand the issues at stake.” Fadaka stated Inuwa was never scared to stand on the side of the truth. He added  that the Late Deputy President was forthright and “his loyalty to NIM was never in doubt.” Fadaka ascribed the recent the renovation of the Institute’s head office in Victoria Island largely to Inuwa and concluded that “the Institute will miss his professionalism as a good negotiator and ally to the Institute’s Management.” Inuwa, 71, joined the membership of the Institute as a Full Member in 2006 and became a Fellow in 2016. Due to his meritorious service to the Institute over the years, he was co-opted into Council in 2014, served as the Chairman of Works Committee (2016 to 2107) and was elected the Deputy President in 2019. In recognition of his innumerable contributions to nation building, he was awarded the national honor of Officer of the Order of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (OFR) in 2005. He was married with children. He has since been buried in accordance with Islamic injunctions.         