It takes some empty shelves in the stores for someone to realise that the world is dying. Don’t you just wish for the days when we lived on trees again?! Then we did not need stores or shelves, and the world was not endangered. Gradually, I see that the world is making ready to return to weirdness. Oh yes, things were abnormal before, now they are going to be worse. Before, we had things like kidnapping, armed robbery, corrupt officers, poverty, non-performing infrastructures, wobbly leadership, a dazed and desperately ignorant followership to worry about. Now add to all these, a coronavirus that has refused to go. So yes, we’re going to weirdness. You know how I know coronavirus is going nowhere? I never heard the word before, until the thing broke out that is, but my computer knew it, wonder of wonders. When I type the word in, the computer does not blush by drawing a red line under the word like it does to my favourite food, amala. See, it has done it again. We need to ask the computer what else it knows. From country to country now, people are making to ‘fire up the engines’ of their respective economies once again, to use the metaphor of the British PM. I agree; that metaphor tends to see the economies in terms of some giant factories bringing out the goodies. But then, is the world not one giant factory? Since this giant factory has been ‘shut down’, have things not gone out of sync? Take the availability of goods for instance. Since the coronavirus struck, the greatest fears of people have been coming to pass, such as not getting their favourite items to buy. Thanks to modern living with all its entrapments of technological advancements and fine, living-on-the-edge ways, people have developed attachments to specific brands of items. Well, those were the good old pre-corona days. For some of us, not just any soap would do since we got used to taking our bathes daily. Not just any toothpaste either since we moved from chewing sticks. And since we got used to sleeping on beds, not just any bedsheet either. Imagine, since we got used to wiping our behinds after our daily big jobs, only a specific brand of toilet paper would do. I tell you, the world has really moved on since our ancestors stopped living on trees. Post-corona, however, it’s a different picture. It has become a time when not just brands of items have disappeared from the shelves, even the items have altogether gone into extinction, some never to be seen again. It is a time when you just hope to get the item in any shape, size or colour to get to use. The other day, I made for a shop after about five weeks of heeding the stay-at-home order. The world felt strange again to my eyes. Not only were the cars no longer moving as fast as in the pre-corona days, people had this look of total helplessness in their eyes, at least the bit of them that I saw. I think people finally realised they don’t own the world. Anyway, the ones that were masked covered everything right up to their eyes. The ones that were not masked had on eyes that defied the entire world. Those were more in number. You remember what George Bernard Shaw said, ‘the reasonable man persists in adapting himself to the world; the unreasonable man persists in adapting the world to himself; therefore, all progress depends on the unreasonable man.’ It is therefore clear that if we are ever going to beat this thing, we have to depend on the unreasonable ones who refuse to wear masks or keep social distancing. They are the ones who have willingly offered themselves as sacrifices to the god of coronavirus to be infected and re-infected by the virus so that we can study their sturdy sinews under its devastating effects. As I was saying, I went a shopping the other day and I was astounded by the emptiness of the shelves that were normally filled to the brim with the stuff. The world, said someone viewing the same empty shelves, is coming to an end; it was inconceivable for shelves to be empty. Wonderful, I thought to myself, it takes some empty shelves in the stores for someone to realise that the world is dying. Don’t you just wish for the days when we lived on trees again! Then we did not need stores or shelves and the world was not endangered. Anyway, I thought the world coming to its end or dying could sometimes refer to the innumerable famines that nature sometimes visited on her beloved children, making them scrawny, emaciated and thin. Same thing, right? Never mind. I also took it to mean the innumerable wars that have turned the world into one huge battlefield littered with relics of war such as war rooms, war maps, dead soldiers, bloodied survivors, broken arms, legs, discarded armoured cars that did not save, etc. I honestly further took the world dying to mean the much talked about greenhouse effect the entire earth is suffering under right now, the melting arctic ice and the white polar bears of that region turning brown because Africa is now spreading her dusty harmattan haze around the world. I mean, have you felt the heat lately? No, say some. There are more tell-tale, end-time signs, particularly from this coronavirus. I have heard many theories and interpretations of these times in different terms and I must confess that the more I hear, the more befuddled I am. Honestly, I am surprised that people are talking about the end of the world now. I thought it began to end the day it began; you know much the same way an infant begins to inch towards its end the day it is born and people think it is growing. So, I think I’ll just stay with that lady. Her reading is more palpable. Anyway, here are the WHO people telling us that till that palpable end comes, or till the corona virus takes its bow and exits the world scene, the human race might have to learn to live with it. Reason? There does not appear to be an effective vaccine against it. In short, the world may be doomed to perpetual ill health, and the empty shelves have nothing to do with it. I think it just shows the futility of thinking that we own the world. I don’t know if you have ever witnessed a scene where someone goes to the doctor for an investigation. After hearing the bad news and the very bad news, the natural question most people ask is ‘how long have I got to live?’ In the same way, after viewing the empty shelves, the masked and unmasked figures walking our streets, the WHO reports, along with all the long standing problems of famines, wars and the earth heating up, the natural question we want to ask is, ‘how long has the earth got to live?’ Perhaps, we can answer the question in one of two ways. The first option is to refine the many theories concerning the end-time, whether they be from conspiracies, the religions or from me. When we do, of course, we must imbue it with some credible personae, not the ones that use social media. Those sound to me like more viruses we should hide from by staying at home, perhaps in another lockdown. Our second option is to believe that indeed, we can get the engines fired up again in no time. Going by history, the world has soon bounced back from its many pandemics. This too should be no different. Now, as you bounce, take good care so you don’t trip over them theories.