 Residents of Okota, Ilupeju, Ikorodu, Alimosho on Lagos Mainland and Ibeju-Lekki axis of Lagos, were all smiles and full of thanks when the second round of Property World Africa Network (PWAN) palliatives reached their communities. The frontline real estate firm moved from house to house in the communities to deliver food stuff in the communities over the weekend. Many aged men and women showered prayers on PWAN and its staff. Many of them said: “God will bless and prosper your business for remembering us in these difficult times. You hand will never go down” PWAN’s Group Managing Director, Dr Jayne Onwumere, seeing the relief and tears of joy on the faces of over 2000 recipients, said that her company was ready to do more to cushion the drastic effect of COVID-19 lockdown on the masses. “I feel humbled that God Almighty has given us the privileged to bring some smiles to the faces of the masses of our people. “The pandemic has actually imposed harsh times, hunger and psychological trauma on our citizens. “I can only say that PWAN, as a responsible corporate organisation is ready to do more to ease the sufferings of our people while we hope that other corporate entities and net worth individuals will contribute their own quotas particularly to touch the vulnerable ones directly.”  Coordinator of the firm’s Palliative Programme, and Managing Director of PWAN Edge an affiliate of PWAN Group, Ambassador Iyiola Oyilola, added: “It was a fulfilling experience to see the excitement and the show of joy and appreciation on the faces of the people especially when they least expected that someone is thinking of them or bordered that they exist.” The Managing Director of PWAN Prime Investments and Properties Limited and joint Coordinator of the food distribution on Lagos Mainland, Obianuju Chinwuba, said that they decided to focus on the mainland area in the second phase because more of the vulnerable reside there. “We gave the palliatives first to the elderly, women/ mothers with children, younger persons and eventually to all residents, family to family,” he stated. The items shared include rice, spaghetti, noodles, tomato, beans, mask and other essential items. Femi Akanbi, PWAN’s Human Resources Officer, added: “We did the palliatives in Okota,Ilupeju, Ikorodu, Alimosho and Ibeju-Lekki areas of Lagos to show the masses love and give the hope; because we realise that government cannot do it all alone.