Lumos Nigeria has received an emergency relief fund from All On to provide solar power to public healthcare facilities on the frontline of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic in Sub-Saharan Africa. The solar systems are being deployed to critical healthcare and emergency response centres across Nigeria to power basic necessities such as lighting, fans, vaccine fridge and laptops, ensuring that essential services can respond to the crisis and deliver urgent medical care. This was made possible through the grant from All On, an organisation which increases access to commercial energy in under-served and unserved off-grid energy markets. In Nigeria, less than 33 per cent of households and 30 per cent of businesses have reliable access to grid electricity. The partnership with Lagos State Government (LASG), through the Young Presidents Association (YPO) and Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) through African Field Epidemiology Network (AFENET) ensures that public health facilities across Nigeria have access to basic power supply. Lumos also partnered the Oyo State Government through Monsurat Olajumoke Sunmonu World Empowerment Foundation (MOSWEF) to provide solar energy to public health centres across Oyo State and with the Society for Family Health (SFH) for public and private health centres across Nigeria. Speaking on the grant, All On CEO, Dr. Wiebe Boer, said: “The investee Lumos Nigeria was selected to be part of the Covid-19 Solar Relief Fund based on their immediate preparedness to respond with products, inventory, technical capabilities and their efficient nationwide delivery track record.” Also, Lumos Nigeria CEO, Adepeju Adebajo, said: “Covid-19 is an unprecedented crisis, putting millions of lives at risk. Reliable, affordable and clean electricity is vital to running life-saving equipment in hospitals and training essential workers. The All-On fund enables us to react exceptionally quickly. Lumos has the products and the trained staff on the ground to install solar systems across Nigeria, which will allow key workers to test and treat patients with the virus and save lives.” The Social franchise Director, Society for Family Health, Nigeria, Dr Anthony Iwala, stated: “We are pleased to receive this very significant support from Lumos and All On. It is an exemplary intervention that will facilitate the success of the fight against the virus.’’ The Regional Technical Coordinator, African Field Epidemiology Network (AFENET), Dr. Patrick Nguku, said: “We are proud to partner with Lumos and All On to strengthen the response to COVID-19 in 22 states across Nigeria. Access to renewable energy (constant electricity) is critical to the functioning of state emergency operations centers to enable state teams and partners to work efficiently in tackling COVID-19 challenges.’’ Lumos is one of four renewable energy companies selected to receive a share of the $500,000 relief fund from Nigerian off-grid energy impact investing company All On, established by Shell.