In a statewide broadcast Friday evening, Uzodimma said only food markets, food vending, supermarkets and pharmaceutical shops would be permitted to open. He said while free movements would be allowed, anyone seen outside without face masks would be arrested and prosecuted. “We must all understand that although we have not suffered any deaths from Coronavirus, COVID 19 is a reality and we must continue to observe all the necessary safeguards even as I ease some of the restriction that we have put in Place. “In this regard, I wish to announce that effective Sunday May 3rd 2020, all food markets and food vending supermarkets and pharmaceutical shops are permitted to open for business.  Large markets will however remain shut”, the governor said. Uzodimma disclosed that massive disinfection of major public places such as markets and public squares was currently on going and will end on Saturday. He added that expected completion of fumigation of major public  places informed the date of Sunday as the effective take off date for easing of some of the restrictions in place. “However, all borders into the state remain closed. This means that there is no entry into or exit from the state. In the unlikely event that any person manages to gain entry into the state, he or she must immediately report to the COVID 19 taskforce for mandatory checks and quarantine. Those who illegally gain entry into the state and those who assist or harbour them shall be arrested and prosecuted. “The wearing of face masks is mandatory by the law of the state. Consequently any person caught without face mask shall be arrested and prosecuted “Also, effective Sunday, May 3rd, 2020 public gatherings not exceeding 50 persons at a time shall be allowed. However the rule of social distancing must be strictly adhered to. “If such gatherings must hold, there must be sufficient provisions for bucket stands for regular washing of hands in running water. “Hand sanitisers must also be made available for regular use by the people so gathered. Equally every person in the gathering must wear face mask”, he said. The governor however maintained the dusk- to- dawn curfew in the state remains in place. .  