Akeem Lawal Super Eagles goalkeeper, Francis Uzoho, has explained why African goalkeepers are hardly successful in Europe. Most clubs in Europe, he added, don’t reckon with African goalkeeprs because not many have proven themselves at that stage. According to him:“It is very difficult for African goalkeepers to succeed in Europe. Outfield players have the advantage but for a goalkeeper, this is a position for just one player throughout 90 minutes. “So most of the times some clubs will like to use an indigene to play in that position because in football there are rules for foreign players. So some clubs uses that position to play their own indigenous players. “It is also difficult because right from time, not so many African goalkeepers has played to the top level. So the clubs have a little bit of fear, they are not so convinced about a black goalkeeper. “Even your team mates in the same club make fun of African goalkeeper. Those are the major problems goalkeepers from Africa face in Europe,” the 21-year-old said. Despite these difficulties, Uzoho said he is inspired to aim for the best and break into a top European club. The Nigeria international, who is on loan to Cypriot side Omonia from Spanish Segunda club Deportivo de La Coruna, believes a move to a top team will help him achieve his dream. “Everything needs to be earned, nothing is given to anybody. I have to work hard for it (becoming one of the greatest African goalkeepers). “I have to give it my best; I have to make the right decision. Most importantly I have to work everyday and try to follow the example of those that have played in the top flight in Europe,” he told Sports Zone, a sports program on Lagos Talks. “So do I have a plan to be there, Yes. I have a plan and I‘m working. Most important thing also is to play. Because in my age, if I don’t play football now, I don’t think I have a chance of being there. “So at the moment, I just need to work hard and find myself in a team that I will be playing almost every game. In that aspect I will develop my game and top teams in Europe will see me as well. And if they see me, maybe come and approach me.”