After Corona Easter, comes Corona Ramadan.  The globe and its major faiths are locked in the vice grip of COVID-19! If science is slow at grabbing a vaccine, are faiths any faster in procuring a cure? Indeed!  COVID-19 is proving a ruthless faith iconoclast as any other, shunting aside traditions, hitherto observed for eons! No thanks to social distancing and crowd control, Easter 2020 endured subdued celebration of significant landmarks: Palm Sunday, Passion Week, Good Friday, Easter Sunday, Easter Monday — beyond virtual caricatures, by the richer congregations. Ramadan 2020, now on its last lap, is hobbled by a similar fate. That has bucked much of its communalism, its fast-season faith advocacy, its proud holy Ramadan lectures, its Iftar, shared dinners, after fasting from sunrise to sundown — and who knows, if it lingers?  It’s eid prayers (and post-Ramadan gaiety and merriment), all big crowd pullers, in the name of the faith! Like Easter 2020, Ramadan (and Eid-el-Fitri) 2020 would be like no other. Now, a pared down Ramadan, perhaps much more than a pared down Lent, holds practical problems. On the doctrinal plane, Lent seems comparatively subdued as Ramadan is unabashedly boisterous.  As kids, we used to tease our Muslim friends about “their noise” at Ramadan, contrasted to the “loud quiet”, during the Christian Lent. Indeed, in our mind of childhood, we verily believed a Christian that publicized his fasting, even during Lent, wilfully starved himself, with absolutely no spiritual reward. And pronto, with childhood innocence that harboured neither bile nor spite, we dismissed Ramadan as one noisy racket — with Ramadan-push inflation to boot! — en route to rating the Lent, up and above the Ramadan! How innocently childish — comparing faiths founded on different doctrinal pivots! Still, from that childhood bias has come ample respect, in adult years, for sundry faiths: Christianity and Islam — and even the much traduced African traditional faiths. Though illogical institutional biases — no thanks to colonial and sundry hegemonic narratives — have traduced African faiths, we know every faith (African, Asian, Judeo-Christian or Arab) is a spiritual pathway, to further appreciate God Almighty, and grapple with nature. But away from faith pride and prejudices!  Back to Ramadan 2020! Ramadan segues into day-to-day realities, and the eminent place of compassion and empathy, in it all. Life may be two-fold: rich or poor, plenitude or scarcity, love or hate, satiation or starvation, high or lowly. But Ramadan pushes rare egalitarianism powered by common humanity; hinged in the spiritual but made practical in the secular, all owned by the community, over a 30-day stretch. Hunger may be a clear personal, nay biological, need.  But when more than a proportionate poor grapple with it, it becomes a clear social menace. Fasting may be the quiet tapping into the pangs of hunger, for spiritual fortification; and seeking heavenly munificence. Ramadan, however,  propels that strictly spiritual chore as boisterous communal business, mandatory for all Muslim adults, except those with medical conditions, those with travelling commitments and females with monthly cycle challenges. It could, therefore, well be a spiritual guide come to manage all-common human and communal challenges. From the daily Tarawih Ramadan evening prayers, otherwise known as hashr (which, somewhat corrupted, the Yoruba faithful call “ashamu”), to sahuur, the pre-fast meal (which the Yoruba call “sari”), to Iftar, the after-fast dinner, everything is public; everything is boisterous — a happy celebration of the faith, in a season of common hunger, by the rich or the poor. Proudly public too are the Ramadan lectures; Koranic recitations, household and communal, which drive the Ramadan season injunction for deep introspection; the Tefsir Koranic tutorials in neighbourhood mosques, between 12 noon and 2 pm, when Ramadan hunger pangs probably bites most; and sundry Islamic proselytization, which comes with the fast territory. To be sure, all these still go on at Ramadan 2020, at least in some virtual form.  But for the first time in contemporary living memory, the soul of the season, the ardent and devout community of the faithful, is markedly absent.  It’s a Ramadan like no other! Yet, Ramadan could have been tailor-made for such a global health emergency, and vanishing opportunities, in the unfolding COVID-19 economic (dis)order — Ramadan, with its free-wheeling charity, its injunction to share, and its spiritual solutions to practical problems! For one, Ramadan-era palliatives (palliative! — again that COVID-19 season lockdown  buzz word!), in foodstuff donations from the well-heeled to poor neighbours and kith-and-kins, have been greatly constrained by the adverse impact of Coronavirus on personal pockets and the general economy. For another, hardly anyone is talking of Iftar, that free-giving after-fast dinner, as the pre-2020 globe had known it. The Shiek Zayed Grand Mosque in Abu Dhabi, the largest mosque in UAE according to Wikipedia, feeds no less than 30, 000 people every Ramadan evening.  But not this year. Even at the White House, the American president often hosts Iftar in honour of American Muslims in their holiest month; just as Nigerian presidents, governors and community leaders, extend such Ramadan gestures to their constituencies. But who hears of such grand Iftars in Ramadan 2020?  Everything is banished by COVID-19 social distancing! Saudi Arabia, that often harvests a huge deluge of spiritual tourists, for the Ramadan Umrah (lesser Hajj), announced well in advance there wouldn’t be such this year. Even if it didn’t, with folks shuttered in home countries and air travel enduring a vicious slump — again, no thanks to COVID-19 — it’s a moot point how many could have made such prayerful sorties, no matter its assumed spiritual bounties. Talking of Hajj, it’s not clear if COVID-19 wouldn’t junk the main Hajj, that precedes the Eid-el-Kabir feast, with its ram-slaughtering, and free-wheeling fun and gaiety. Yet, both the Ramadan and the Hajj are among the five pillars of Islam, even if the Hajj is only mandatory for Muslims who can afford it.  If this trend continues, 2020 could well be the first year, in living contemporary history, that the yearly Hajj would be cancelled. But even before the Hajj, the Ramadan eid, the 2020 Eid-el-Fitri prayers, may be the first to be celebrated, not at the special communal prayer grounds, but in individual homes — again, no thanks to ravaging Coronavirus! Might that then be the strategic ploy behind the easing of lockdown, by some northern states, with the Ramadan inching to a close? That would be understandable political gamble, kowtowing to the religious sensibilities of their Muslim citizens.  Yet, it would be a reckless and needless health risk, for Coronavirus might just flare for the worse, after months of lockdown to curtail it. But however that balance is navigated, Nigerian Muslims have earned praise, for how they have adroitly navigated Ramadan 2020, despite the challenge COVID-19, that sheared it of its boisterous, communal soul.