Lagos State Bakers have called on the Federal Government to urgently intervene in the prices of baking materials, which may lead to increase in the prices of bread by 60 per cent anytime soon. The bakers complained that the increase in the prices of baking materials was because of the Covid-19 pandemic currently ravaging the world. In a statement jointly issued by the Lagos Chairmen, Association of Master Bakers and Caterers of Nigeria, Kosofe and Surulere local chapters, Comrade Taiwo Akintola and Comrade Ibitoye Oladapo, the body expressed sadness over the current situation the bakers are battling with. According to the association, the high cost of baking materials is killing the bakery businesses, as many bakeries are finding it difficult to make profits due to the high cost of the materials. “A bag of flour that costs N9,000 before COVID-19, now goes for N13,000, while a bag of sugar now costs N24, 000 as against the former price of N13,000.” “Butter is now #12,000 against #7,500, while Milk which was hitherto #29,000, now goes for #52,000. And there is an increase in the Bread Packaging cost which is now #12 ,000 against the former price of #10,000″, the Bakers said They added that the prices of salt, yeast and other baking materials had also hit the roof top. The association also explained that the instability of foreign exchange, high cost of diesel and other baking materials were reasons given by flour millers for the hike in the prices of baking materials, stressing that the association have appealed to flour millers and other people involved in the selling of baking materials to reduce their prices but is yet to yield favorable response. “And that is why we are pleading with Federal Government to intervene in this matter by talking to flour millers and baking material sellers to bring the prices down. “Master bakers association is one of the largest employer of labour in the country and most of the bakeries are folding up, many Nigerians working in the bakery sector are already losing their jobs”, they added While appealing to both Federal and State government to quickly come in and address the situation for the benefit of all, the association maintained that “If we are suppose to follow the trend of increase in the prices of raw materials for our production, the Prices of Bread may increase by 60%”.