 As students, we need to be prayerful and upbeat having been on lockdown for weeks due to the COVID-19 pandemic which currently ravages the world. The past few weeks have been a strange one filled with uncertainties. Many students are confused on the next line of action. The good news however, is that as a student, you could be productive during your stay-at-home period, albeit in diverse ways. Now many countries are going on lockdown and many people are not being allowed to leave their houses; you might find yourself at  a loss with your usual routine.  Nonetheless, the question is: ‘What do you do with all this time at home’? To achieve this, it is necessary to have a simple ‘To do list’. This will help you track your time, prioritise tasks, and set alarms and reminders so you never forget the important tasks that need to be carried out. If you want more free time to do all those things you have always desired doing, then you need to study what you do with your time. Prioritise your tasks (including spending time with loved ones and yourself) and then allocate the time you have. In other words, you need to learn some serious time management skills as this lockdown could last as long as God knows when. What have you been doing recently? Are you where you want to be? Do you know where you are going? Is your present life everything you have ever dreamed? The lockdown has given you the time and space to really appraise everything, see what works and what doesn’t, and make a plan to adjust both. In the end, you might end up realising that you have been neglecting yourself and use this time to dive deep into the concept of self-love. Learning a software skill will be crucial during this time; so it is important to pick out your stack of tools, learn them and start to leverage to keep you productive. If you are feeling frazzled, set aside an hour to go through tutorials and videos to learn. That hour of focused learning will save you tons of hours later in lost productivity. Take the opportunity to register for online courses on diverse areas outside your field of study or profession. There are loads of online courses out there for free. Most of them get you certified right away and you can even put the badges on your LinkedIn. During a pandemic, it’s logical to invest in your health. Now that you have all the time in the world, you have absolutely no excuse to skip exercising. We know that staying in shape may not seem like the easiest thing to do, especially when you are confined to your living spaces. If you are struggling to motivate yourself, don’t worry because there are a lot of apps and workout videos you can find online.  Spend time with your family. In today when all family members are so caught up in their works and offices, we hardly find time to sit and talk to our family members. Make the most of your time and have an engaging chit-chat session with your family. Besides, this is the perfect time to start future-proofing your income, treat this quarantine as a reset button for your finances You will also need to consider your bills, food, health items, and medicines. Ask yourself: “How can I save more?” Buy only the necessities! And then, layout your recovery plan after and look for ways to start earning from home. If you don’t need to earn right now, then you could start a blog. There are so many skills online that you could take that will give you the self-relief. All you need to do is to find the ones you have great interest in. Remember, it doesn’t have to be school-related. As we all know, the 2019/2020 Academic Session has not ended, as we are yet to write our exams online and do other important things to conclude the session. Having this in mind we should also study for our exams while at home so that whenever the pandemic ends, we could confidently return to school. This is a good opportunity for us to effectively study and cover all what we have been taught. You need to make good use of this time, especially for those who were actively involved in the activities that come with the second semester in school. As we study effectively, may the Lord enlighten the eyes of our understanding with speed and accuracy, and may this semester grades be the best result yet for us all. Lastly, let us not forget to pray. This is the best time to build a relationship with our Creator, not only because we are afraid, but because we need Him every day in our lives. 