Findings have shown that labour migration is an essential component that facilitates regional integration and economic development in Africa. Research on the impacts of immigration on the economy of developing countries carried out by the Development Centre of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the International Labour Organisation (ILO) reveals that migrant workers provide supplementary labour force especially in areas where native-born workers do not readily consider viable. The studies further disclose that the inputs of these migrant workers contribute to the development of the formal sector of the economy thereby resulting in a positive effect on public finance. In Nigeria, most of the people that fall into the aforementioned sector of the economy are found in various groups and segments in the agriculture sector of the economy. Employment in agriculture in Nigeria was 36.38 per cent as of 2019. (Source: ILO estimate). The agriculture sector of Nigeria’s economy recorded the highest growth in the Q1 of 2019 across the major sectors in five (5) quarters. According to the data released by the National Bureau of Statistics, agriculture sector grew at 3.17 percent in real term, up from 2.46 percent in the previous quarter. (May 21, 2019) Majorly, just as agriculture in Nigeria is made up of four sub-activities: Crop Production, Livestock, Forestry and Fishing, in like manner, the categories of people that dominate this sector fall into four categories, viz: the elderly (majorly the uneducated ones), young adults (educated/half-educated) and women (majorly the uneducated) in most parts of the country while the fourth group of people are migrant workers from neighbouring countries. Nigeria shares land borders with the Republic of Benin in the West, Chad, and Cameroon in the East, and the Republic of Niger in the north. Farming is the principal source of food and income for Africans which makes up to 60 percent of all jobs on the continent. In Nigeria, most of the migrant farmers constitute more than 50-60 per cent of the workers that make agriculturists in Southern Nigeria. This has made the agriculture sector to rely heavily on the labour force of the aforementioned four groups of people. The migrants are cheap suppliers of the labour force for farmers who intend to expand their farm beyond one hectare which could be properly managed by a single farmer. However, the impact of COVID-19, which restricts movement, is, unfortunately happening between the seasons when farming is gradually beginning to pick up. This will consequently greatly affect these groups of workers. These farmers constitute more than 64 percent of the population and rely solely on agriculture for their means of livelihood. Any impact on the supply of labour force on them would have a disastrous effect. Normally, migrant workers are paid after the season with harvest stock. Some are paid by barter while some work, using their motorcycle and return to their villages where they start the business. The majority of the Nigerian labour forces (70-80 percent) are peasants working as subsistent farmers. Hence government must make a proper arrangement to ensure adequate mechanization and support for them. Since the COVID-19 outbreak, its negative effects have continued to be felt in the life of everyone, especially in the agriculture sector and migrant farmers in particular. This is proof that many migrant workers depend on the economy especially in the agriculture sector. Findings have also shown that some businesses in Europe, particularly agriculture, are currently in a panic of further economic losses due to travel restrictions, especially on the selected category of migrants that are coming into the continent. For instance, Germany’s agriculture sector depends, to a large extent, on migrant workers from neighbouring countries like Bulgaria, Poland, or Romania. Germany also fears that the 2020 harvest is in threat due to border closures and health-related uncertainties. Migrant workers are mostly the biggest losers during economic disasters (COVID-19) because of their short-term contracts. Therefore, as the global economy begins to plunge gradually into recession as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, more migrant farmers are being prevented from going to the farm. African migrants residing in countries like Nigeria, Benin Republic, and Chad will feel the impact of the restriction more than other groups of people in the economy across West Africa. In the US in 2018, over 22 million people were employed in the agriculture-related field, representing 11 percent of the country’s employment. This shows how important this sector is, not only in Africa but also at the global level. Furthermore, growing demand in sectors such as agriculture, mining, and construction remains an important driver of economic migration in Africa. Consequently, the migration of low-skilled and semi-skilled workers has become a prominent feature of modern intra-African economic activity. In West Africa, robust labour demand in agriculture and construction has been the major driver of migration from neighbouring countries into Nigeria. However, contemporary economic migration in Africa preponderantly involves low-skilled migrants and it is largely concentrated in the agriculture sector. Systemic growth in a labour-intensive sector such as agriculture, which has a strong absorptive capacity for low-skilled migrants with a limited level of education, can create substantial employment opportunities for people. The ECOWAS protocol related to the free movement of persons, residence, and establishment has facilitated migrant mobility within the region’s labour markets. (Source: UNCTAD, based on University of Sussex, 2018, and World Bank, 2013). Also, findings have revealed that about 423 million people are living in the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS). As people migrate from one country to another, seeking job opportunities, migrant workers have accounted for the biggest share of intra-regional movement. The International Labour Organisation (ILO) estimates that 164 million people are migrant workers which signify 9 percent rise since 2013 when they numbered 150 million. According to the 2nd edition of the ILO’s Global Estimates on International Migrant Workers (2013-2017), the majority of migrant workers accounts for 96 million men while 68 million are women. Of the 164 million migrant workers worldwide, approximately 111.2 million, representing 67.9 per cent live in high-income countries, while 30.5 million which constitutes 18.6 per cent are found in upper-middle-income countries. The report further showed that 16.6 million migrants, representing 10.1 percent, live in lower-middle-income countries while 5.6 million, representing 3.4 percent, live in low-income countries. (Source: ILO) Furthermore, research works have also shown that the majority of Africans do not emigrate from the continent but largely migrate to neighbouring countries. For instance, according to the UN’s Department of Economic and Social Affairs (DESA), between 2015 and 2017, the number of African international migrants living within the region jumped from 16 million to around 19 million. (UN, DESA, 2017). In today’s world, the world is more connected than it has ever been. Information, commodities, and money flow faster across national boundaries, a development referred to as globalisation. It is obvious that many developing countries need migrant workers as a result of shortages in labour-intensive works such as agriculture, manufacturing, and construction. Although migration comes with its multifaceted challenges, the onus is on policy-makers across the globe to formulate a comprehensive and integrated policy that will recognise and foster the potential that lies within these groups of workers. “We cannot ignore the real policy difficulties posed by migration, but neither should we lose sight of its immense potential to benefit migrants, the countries they leave, and those to which they migrate.” — Kofi Annan, former UN Secretary-General The Addis Ababa-based UN Economic Commission for Africa (ECA) proposed that job-creation policies on the continent focus on labour-intensive sectors such as agriculture. Many developing countries are of the view that a flexible migration process would be a rapid means of increasing their gains from globalisation. However, the challenge is to develop policies that are acceptable to both developed and developing countries and that will promote global rapid economic growth. Based on the foregoing, the Nigerian government must make migrant workers, especially those in the agriculture sector, part of its national and sub-regional economic development strategy. Of course, this would involve practicable economic policy to strengthen labour market establishments that govern intra-regional-migration and labour movement. Our policy-makers at all levels of government must rise to the occasion by formulating all-inclusive strategies that identify the significance of migrant farmers to the growth and development of the economy while necessary support should be given to them in order to promote productivity and foster competitiveness across the sector. stakeholder agree the smallholder farmer who constitute and contribute more thank 70% of Nigeria farming community and produce a larger percentage of Nigeria food needs are plague by the demon of poverty on the one hand and the other hand lack of mechanization that help reduce their suffering and increase profitability. Nigeria mechanization is known to be one of the least in the world. Government and state actors should seek to coordinate and collaborate better by tapping into local technology capacity that will accelerate mechanization expansion, technology can help to aggregate existing capacity and utilize same to increase farmer access. technology will no doubt reduce risk associated with mechanization financing thereby crowding investors to the sector. as we think of what to reduce the pains that will be inflecting by covid-19 we must  prioritise the need to utilise technology to close the gap hitherto created by the shortfall in the supply of migrant workers. A typical example is the Tractor-On-The-Go (TOG tractors) App. This platform can connect farmers to farm equipment just by using their phones while equipment owners can also display their equipment on the platform whereby they can supply their services to farmers, no matter how remotely connected. 