 Three 400 level students of the University of Port Harcourt who were kidnapped on April 7 have been discovered dead in Eleme, The Nation has learnt. The victims identified as Joy Adoki Nelson Nwafor and Fortune Obemba were declared missing by the police on April 19 after Adoki’s brother, Umor filed a complaint at Eleme Police Division. It was gathered that days after they disappeared, their kidnappers contacted their families and demanded ransom. Despite payment of ransom, it was gathered that the kidnappers failed to release the students as promised, leaving their families confused. The Nation gathered that with the complaint made by Adoki’s brother, detectives in Rivers State arrested one Bright alias Nelly who led investigators to two principal suspects in the kidnap identified as Friday Akpan and Emmanuel both resident in Eteo, Eleme. It was learnt that Akpan confessed to the police that the three suspects were killed and buried in shallow graves at Eleme.  The decomposing bodies of the  victims, including a female have reportedly been exhumed and deposited in a morgue. The Spokesman of the state police command, Nnamdi Omoni, a Deputy Superintendent of Police(DSP), who disclosed this while parading the suspects in Port Harcourt, the state capital, said, the students were reportedly kidnapped last month and that efforts  were on to arrest the rest of  the fleeing members of the criminal gang. Omoni said the Commander of anti-cultism unit, Collins Edward Shadar, a Chief Superintendent of Police(CSP), led the operation, adding that the victims were killed and buried in a shallow grave in Etoo community in Eleme Local Government Area of the state, adding that Akpan led the police to the burial site for recovering of the bodies. He reiterated the commitment of the new Commissioner of Police, Joseph Mukan to restore the state to its glory by ensuring that no criminal was spared in any part of the state. Omoni said that one AK 47 riffle, one pistol, three magazines,72 rounds of live ammunition were  recovered from the suspects.