 Six bills, including Ogun State Official Order of Precedence of Public Officers and other Persons Law, 2019; State Mortgages and Foreclosure Law, 2019; as well as the State Technical and Vocational Education Board (Amendment) Law, 2019, today scaled through second reading on the floor of the State House of Assembly. Others include the State Health Insurance Scheme (Amendment) Law, 2020; the State Public Health Law, 2020 and State Regulations Approval Law, 2020, were all deliberated upon by the lawmakers at a plenary presided over by the Speaker, Rt. Hon. Olakunle Oluomo at the Assembly Complex, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta. All the Assembly members took turn to examine the bills shortly after separate motions for the second reading were moved by Honourables Modupe Mujota, Damilola Soneye, Adeyemi Ademuyiwa and Adegoke Adeyanju respectively and were seconded by Honourables Solomon Osho, Sikiratu Ajibola, Bolanle Ajayi, Yusuf Amosun and Olusola Adams, with the support of all other lawmakers  through a voice vote. Opening debate on the State Official Order of Precedence of Public Officers and other Persons Law, 2019, the sponsor, Hon. Mujota said the bill was meant to correct administrative errors by spelling out in clear terms, the order of protocols for political offices holders (elective and appointment), with a view to promoting orderliness in the running of governance in the state as being practised at the national level.  On the Mortgages and Foreclosure Law, 2019, the sponsor, Hon. Soneye and other co-sponsors, opined that the bill would assist the people in accessing national mortgage funds; address housing deficit with benefit to state in boosting its asset on land. In his lead debate on the bill- State Technical and Vocational Education Board (Amendment) Law, 2019, Hon. Adeyemi and other lawmakers posited that the legislative instrument would help revive state vocational institutions, encourage apprenticeship with international standards in vocational training centres towards ensuring that the teeming youth become self-reliant in the technology-driven society. Responding, Speaker Oluomo lauded his colleagues for their robust contributions to the six bills and directed that the bills be committed to the House Committees on Establishments and Service Matters; Lands and Housing, Education, Science and Technology as well as Health for further legislative actions.