The COVID-19 pandemic has left the world in disarray. The social, economic, bilateral and multilateral relationships, religious and cultural impact of the lockdown across nations and continents have been huge and unimaginably unprecedented. In all the chaos, humans are bearing the brunt as only wildlife seems to be having freedom from human actions that hitherto endangered their lives. Economic and social activities are the engine rooms of human existence; so with the lockdown of all such activities, coupled with the psychological burden of the uncertainties and fear surrounding the pandemic, the world seems to have ground to a halt. The able-bodied are crying out about the impact of the lockdown on economic and social activities. For persons living with disabilities in Nigeria, the lockdown has compounded what to them has been a very difficult life journey largely because the country seems not to have factored in their welfare in the national plan. Unlike in other countries where infrastructure and other facilities are planned for their convenience, the Nigerian environment seems strictly for the ‘able’ bodied. However, what the country misses are the socio-economic contributions that such persons living with disabilities contribute to development. Most of the people living with disabilities are not independent because most are neither educated nor have a skill that can help them earn a living. This is not unconnected with the fatalistic outlook to their disabilities that range from, developmental, cognitive, physiological, intellectual or a combination of factors. However, for societies that plan their integration, living with certain disabilities does not affect the contributions and well-being of such citizens. Many of those living with disabilities depend on families and friends for survival. Some even depend on public solicitation for alms in which case they need to move to such venues to earn a living. The lockdown has impacted on their benefactors and areas of operation. This period must force some introspection in the governments in Nigeria at all levels. The country must realise that the number of persons living with disabilities in Nigeria runs into millions and that is more than the population of some countries. Not empowering them in ways that can make them maximally productive and independent is a huge loss to the country. Historically, some of the notable individuals lived with one form of disability or the other. Beethoven, one of the greatest music composers was deaf. Eleanor D. Roosevelt, a four-time American President had polio, Albert Einstein had learning disability. Some of the outstanding athletes in Nigeria are paralympians. What this means is that living with any form of disability does not rob anyone of contributing to life. In fact, it is established that they often excel at what they are talented because they tend to be more focused. The communities have been lamenting about the hardship resulting from the lockdown  largely because they are helpless; being dependent on others increases their vulnerability at this time. Unfortunately, it seems only Lagos State has an agency for the disabled, we wish more states would do so too. While we recognise that both the federal and some state governments have tried to share palliatives to the various communities living with disabilities, their complaints show that those are like a mere drop in the ocean as they are not working with a valid data. There must be a deliberate plan to integrate the communities like other nations do. Most infrastructure are constructed with facilities to assist their easy movement and they often have employment quotas and disability allowances. Living with disability should not be seen with the fatalistic lens that see them as serving divine punishment. Science and technology have shown that disabilities could be congenital or a result of diseases and accidents and as such anyone could be a victim. They must be cared for at all times beyond this lockdown.