Samsung Heavy Industries Nigeria (SHIN) Limited has handed over 5,000 COVID-19 test kits to the Federal Government. The donation was part of the efforts of the Korean firm to help Nigeria benefit from the experience of South Korea in the global pandemic war. Handing over the kits to officials of the Federal Ministry of Health in Abuja with participants from the Embassy of the Republic of Korea, the representative of SHIN said the gesture was part of the shipbuilding giant’s strategy of giving back to its host countries worldwide. He said the kits and other contributions from individuals and corporate bodies will compliment government’s efforts to tackle the pandemic. The representative noted that the intervention of SHIN will also help Nigeria to benefit from the Korean experience in suppressing the virus. He recalled the World Health Organisation (WHO)’s Director General, Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, had given special commendation to South Korea for its innovative approach in tackling the virus, saying that WHO also described his country as a global model in the war against the COVID-19. Citing a report by WHO, the SHIN representative disclosed that when South Korea was faced with surging community transmission, it refused to surrender to the pandemic but developed innovative testing strategies, rationed the use of masks, conducted exhaustive contact tracing and testing, and isolated suspected cases. According to him, these efforts led to declining infections in South Korea. The representative recalled that South Korea has received several requests for the test kits from many countries of the world. He revealed that despite the high demand for the kits from countries of the world and the difficulty in rationing them, SHIN was able to secure 5,000 kits for the Nigeria because the company cares for Nigerians and accords the country top priority in its global business. Other Korean companies operating in Nigeria, he assured, are also going to make various donations for the country. The representative also added that SHIN felt it is part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) to help the government to tackle and mitigate the impact of the global pandemic Commenting on the donation, the Korean Ambassador to Nigeria, Mr. Lee In Tae, said: “It is indeed great to see that a Korean firm such as SHIN has taken an initiative to donate COVID-19 test kits, which further validates the fact that the Korean Government and Korean companies operating in Nigeria truly care about Nigeria and feel the responsibility to support and help the federal government to tackle the pandemic in Nigeria. “The Republic of Korea will also work closely with the Nigerian government to see any way we can support Nigeria to deal with the situation.”