Forum of Kaduna State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Young Persons For Progress and Development has described the suspension of Senator Suleiman Othman Hunkuyi and six others as a step in the right direction. A statement by the forum jointly signed by Comrade Danjuma Bello Sarki and Hon. Bello Jallo Chairman and Secretary respectively said the organisation received the news of the suspension of some members of their party in Kaduna State with some sense of applause and commendation. The State Working Committee (SWC) issued a suspension on Senator Suleiman Hunkiyi; Dr Mato Dogara (Lere local government); Ibrahim Lazuru (Lere Local Government); Dr John Danfulani (Kachia Local Government); Lawal Imam Adamu (Soba Local Government); Ubale Salmanduna (Zaria Local Government) and Hon. Hashim Garba (Kubau Local Government) over alleged anti-party activities. The forum said: “We wish to categorically state that, the action taken on the 16th May, 2020 by the Working Committee of the State Caretaker Committee (CTC), after preliminary hearings is a step in the right direction and in full compliance with the provision of the PDP Constitution Section 57 (3) which stipulates that “The Working Committee at any level of the party, and the Executive Committee (at the Ward Level) may, after preliminary hearings, suspend a member from the party for a period not exceeding one month, during which period the member so suspended shall lose his right to contest any election, and shall be referred to the appropriate Disciplinary Committee. “As a responsible political party, which believes in the rule of law, the PDP must not fold its arms and watch some members who are alleged to have flagrantly breach some Sections of the Party’s Constitution be allowed to go Scott free. “We are totally in support of any punitive measure meted against any member or group who engages in any conduct likely to cause disaffection among members of the Party or is likely to disrupt the peaceful, lawful and efficient conduct of the business of the Party. “Therefore, we urge the Party to diligently investigate all the allegations levelled against them, with a view to applying appropriate sanctions on anyone found guilty, no matter how highly placed he is”. The forum stressed that discipline is key to the survival of any political party.