In a bid to play its part in supporting economies of the world to keep sailing during and after the COVID-19 pandemic, Foreign Investment Network (FIN) Magazine has organised a virtual webinar tagged ‘Deploying technology to mitigate the Impact of the pandemic’. The aim was to bring together experts in various fields to dissect and explore opportunities in technology. The first discussant, Minister of Communication and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ali Ibrahim spoke on the technological initiatives of the Federal Government of Nigeria. Noting the various challenges encountered in the various sectors of the Nigerian economy, he commended the synergy between the NCDC and Telecommunication companies in Informing citizens adequately since the outbreak of the pandemic. “It is worthy to note that there are challenges in various sectors of the Nigerian economy before the outbreak of coronavirus. There is room for development despite the challenges and problems encountered. The media is doing well to communicate with people and create awareness,” he said. Asked about his plans on technological training and continuation of working remotely after COVID-19, he noted that plans are already in place for virtual training of Ministers who will key into the use of technology. He also noted the establishment of collaboration with International institutions for youths to get trained and the launch of Virtual Academy at NITDA. “We can’t rule out physical interraction benefits. Working at home saves time and allows for participation. Virtual meetings participation even after COVID will be retained in a higher percentage. We need to learn how to live with the virus. So, virtual meetings and communications will be maintained. Head Sub-Saharan Africa GSMA, Akinwale Goodluck harped on the need to use technology to make the difference through digital literacy, mobile money, mobile and smart phones, data, SMS, etc. “COVID-19 will reinvigorate thinking. For us to make a difference, mobile voice identification must be linked to data. Difference will be made where we can use the infrastructure to facilitate payment but limited to smart phones and data. We can use mobile money to facilitate social transfer and reach people,” he said. He further stated a lot needs to be done by governments and Civil society Organisations with the right political will to bring people to do online businesses. Another discussant, Benjamin Benaim, was hopeful of the fact that the world will survive the COVID-19 crises just like others before. He frowned at the fact that 80% of Nigerians are not internet savvy as he expressed elation at the level of resilience in start ups of SMEs, innovative private-public partnerships and the use of phones to access drugs and medication in Nigeria. On his part, Dele Nedd informed participants about the investment opportunities in digital technology saying now is the time to invest in it.