Tyson Fury has promised to knock out Anthony Joshua in three rounds with a left hook and slammed his rival as ‘gutless’ and lacking resilience. Fight fans are desperate to see IBF, WBA (Super) and WBO champion Joshua go war with WBC and lineal belt holder Fury in what would be the first undisputed heavyweight showdown in decades. Fury would like to fight Joshua next if he can convince Deontay Wilder to accept a step-aside offer, but the British star does not expect much of a challenge against his fellow champion. He told Sky Sports: ‘AJ’s style is tailor-made for mine. Upright, walking forward, classic defence. ‘Strong and powerful, but no footwork, hardly any resilience and a bit gutless when it comes down to getting clipped. I’ll knock him out around two to three rounds.’ ‘First time I connect, his legs will do a dance,’ he continued. ‘I’ll just jump on him like that fat kid (Andy Ruiz Jr). I’ll tell you what shot it’s gonna be, should I? ‘Left hook to the temple, you’re gonna see him do a Bambi dance all over the ring.’  Eddie Hearn and Frank Warren revealed there was tentative talks about staging Joshua vs Fury next, but it remains to be seen if either camp will be able to raise the funds to convince Wilder to give up his third shot at the Gypsy King. Fury is obligated to fight Wilder in their trilogy clash in his next fight and Joshua is contracted to defend his titles against IBF mandatory Kurbat Pulev in his next bout. Much has been made about the strained negotiations between both sides, but Fury insists he has waited five years for his rival to step up to the plate. ‘Eddie Hearn talks a lot of hot air as usual,’ he said. ‘I’ve been offering to fight Joshua for quite a while. I’ve been trying to make that fight happen for the last five years. And it’s not happened at all. ‘Eddie’s obviously Joshua’s promoter, so he’ll have to be speaking to my team to make the fight happen, give the fans what they want and stop running away from the biggest fight since Lennox [Lewis] fought Frank Bruno. ‘Have the guts to step up to the plate and get flattened, son.’