 LAGOS State Commissioner of Police Hakeem Odumosu has ordered the detention of Chief Superintendent (CSP) Yahaya Adeshina to allow for independent investigation into the killing of a sergeant, Onalaja Onajide. Odumosu gave the order following allegations by Onajide’s family that he was shot by Adeshina in an attempt to disperse a crowd that gathered in front of Ilemba Hausa Police Station, Ajamgbadi. Onajide, a station guard, was shot on the night of May 10, while standing with Adeshina and the station’s officer and died before reaching the hospital. Although the police initially arrested two fake soldiers in connection with the incident, the command said on Thursday that it detained the DPO and retrieved his gun to allow for unbiased investigation into the incident. A statement by spokesman Bala Elkana yesterday said the CP also ordered autopsy on the deceased to ascertain time and cause of death. According to Elkana, the CP ordered the transfer of the casefile to the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCIID), Yaba for discreet investigation. “This decision followed reports received by the Command alleging the DPO Ilemba Hausa, CSP Yahaya Mohammed Adeshina, of shooting the Sergeant while dispersing crowd that gathered in front of the station. The DPO is arrested and detained at the State CIID for investigation. “His rifle is retrieved for forensic examination. The command has ordered that autopsy be carried out on the deceased person. The Commissioner of Police expressed his heartfelt condolences to the family and friends of the fallen colleague and assured them that the command will stand with them in this moment of grief and ensure that justice prevails. “The shooting incident happened on May 10 at about 9:40pm. The report forwarded to the headquarters by the DPO on May 16 at about 4pm, stated that unknown gunmen fired gunshots at the Divisional Police Officer, Ilemba Hausa and the Station Guard, Sergeant Onalaja Onajide. “That while the DPO survived the gunshot, the Station Guard did not. The DPO further reported that two suspects were arrested in connection with the crime. The two suspects initially arrested are suspected to be deserted soldiers. The command will hand them over to the military authority for further investigation,” said Elkana. 