 EKITI State Governor Dr. Kayode Fayemi has described the $5 million investment (about N2 billion) by Promasidor Nigeria Limited to reactivate the moribund Ikun Dairy Farm in the state, as a major catalyst that would turn around the fortunes of the state when operational. Fayemi said the contribution has made Promasidor a core investor in Ekiti, saying production would have by now begun in the milk industry located in Ikun Ekiti in Moba Local Government, but for the lockdown caused by the spread of COVID-19 pandemic in the state. Fayemi, who spoke in Ado Ekiti, the state capital while receiving palliative food products donation worth over N34 million from Promasidor Nigeria, reiterated the readiness of his administration to revive some of the ailing industries in the state. He said the donation had further attested to the fact that Promasidor was committed to the growth of Ekiti State economy. Fayemi, represented by the Special Adviser on Investment, Mr. Akintunde Oyebode, said the move would create more employment opportunities for the youth. The governor branded the donation as a testimony of the company’s belief in public-private partnership paradigm shift in the developing of any nation, saying the government alone couldn’t grow the economy to an enviable height. Fayemi said the reactivation of the ailing industry would be done in partnership with Promasidor Nigeria and the Central Bank of Nigeria, will ensure daily production of about 10, 000 litres of milk. “The revamping of Ikun Dairy Farm, established in 1987, but abandoned by past administrations in the state, was part of the move by our administration to attract more investors to the state. “Let me reiterate the readiness of our administration to continue to provide an enabling environment for private industries to strive in the state. An arrangement had been concluded to revive Ire Clay Bricks Limited and other industries in the state. “I salute the host community for their unflinching support to the firm. I urge them to give more supports to the farm and ensure its success,” Fayemi said. He solicited the support of the people of Ekiti State on the success of the firm and assured them that the company would employ about 1,000 Ekiti indigenes when operational. “Promasidor has made an initial investment of $5 million in the farm which will be invested to procure cattle, equip the Dairy farm, establish a farm to produce feed and renovate existing buildings. “At full capacity, this farm will produce over 10,000 litres of milk per day, over 1,000 Ekiti people will also be employed to work in the farm,” he stated. Earlier, on his company’s outreach project on COVID-19 containment in the country, especially on the products donations to Ekiti State government and others to cushion the economic pains and pangs of the lockdown, Chief Executive Officer of Promasidor Nigeria, Mr. Anders Einarsson, said: ‘’Our outreach project will go a long way in helping the most vulnerable in our society who has as a result of this pandemic have been unable to go about their normal day-to day activities or have had their income disrupted.” “As a company who cares to the nourishment needs of everyone, regardless of their socio-economic status, we deemed it necessary to step in and assist in the best way possible by ensuring food and nourishment should not be a worry for them at this time”. The company boss stated that the total cost of this outreach project is valued at  only N280million in cash and food products. Corroborating the Chief Executive Officer, Director, External Relations of the company, Mr. Andrew Enahoro said: “What Promasidor did was to give back to the society, especially the needy and the less privileged who are going through a lot of economic and financial stress at this time.” “Food is everything when we talk of food security that can bring a nation down, so what we’ve decided to do as you can see from our product donation is to, at least give a little back to the society especially to the needy and the less privileged who are going through a lot at this point in time”, Andrew Enahoro stated. Specifically, Promasidor, a leading food & dairy company has made a direct cash contribution as well as donation of its quality food products in the fight against COVID-19. While the food company donated N200million cash for the exclusive purchase of equipment and the setting up of isolation centers required in the nationwide fight against COVID-19 through the Nigeria Private Sector Coalition against COVID-19 (CACOVID), it has also donated some of its quality products worth over Eighty million naira only (N80m) to Lagos and Ekiti State Governments respectively. 