 With his plans of churning mind-blowing songs, Canada based Nigerian, Taiwo Oyinloye aka John Tony has made good his promise with his latest single currently making waves in Canada and Nigeria; ‘Would You Mind.’ The Kwara State-born rapper, songwriter and soul musician hinted that his music influenced by Drake, Juice Wurld and Playboi Carti has helped his versatility to sing different genre of music such as Hip-hop, RnB, rap, pop, Afrobeat, etc as his music focuses on love, romance, money, family, heartbreaks. He explained why his music is all about love. “Would you mind” is a hip hop/pop which expresses adoration. It gives a calming effect and offers assurance, trust, and hope, which are, of course, some of the virtues of love. “Love is a strong force. It is the basis on which the earth was created and everything therein was formed. It is a powerful emotion that has the capacity to affect massive positive changes. However, it is disheartening to see how love has been destroyed by people. The theme of my first single on ‘Love’, in order to redefine what love is. Not withstanding the fact that the superficial plot is focused on an expression of deep-seated feelings of love for a beautiful lady, the song has even deeper meaning and messages for everybody, regardless of their relationship status, in its lyrics. It exhibits the qualities of love, chiefly of which are its optimism and strong faith in the person being loved. With these, I intend to teach people the need to embrace the real virtues of love – willingness to go all the way and be there for one another.” Oyinloye said that he would love to collaborate with Wizkid, Olamide, Davido, and Burna Boy because, “growing up as a lover of Afro beats, all of these musicians have brought their own style and talent which has impacted my life positively.” He, however, disagrees with the opinion that music in his generation cannot stand the test of time like renowned artists like King Sunny Ade, Onyeka Onwenu, Ebenezar Obey, among others. He said: “Musicians of this generation also sing evergreen songs in their own unique way. They sing songs that you can understand and relate with. I sing songs that people can relate to, by using simple words.” Talking about basic life lessons that guide him and when he made a big break in music, he said: “The basic life lessons that guides me when I relate with people is that life is very simple. People should treat other people the way they want them to be treated, which I have imbibed in my interaction with people. I wouldn’t necessarily say I’ve been there in the music industry. I just dropped my debut single this year. I took a break from music after High School. When I was still in school, myself and two of my friends would sing to entertain students. After I graduated, I stopped singing with them.”