 Two persons were crushed to death and seven others gravely injured when a tuck conveying cement ran over two commercial motorcycle operators and two vehicles before falling down with all its weight on another vehicle. The accident, which occurred in the morning at the Toll Gate corridor of Lagos – Abeokuta, involved Volkswagen Bus KTU 952 XY, Bajaj Boxer Motorcycle AAB 404 WL,
Bajaj Boxer Motorcycle GBE 010 QV, Toyota Highlander jeep Black FKJ 505 DP, Toyota Corolla EKY 556 ES and unmarked Dangote Trailer. The gory scene touched off the anger of mob who attempted to set the truck ablaze but the Operatives of Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Nigeria Police, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps(NSCDC), Ogun State Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps(TRACE) and So – Safe Corps were sighted labouring to contain youths bent on torching the truck, clearing obstruction and directing traffic. The FRSC and TRACE also frantically rescued the injured to State General Hospital, Ota while the remains of the death were evacuated to Ifo General Hospital. The FRSC Sector Commander in Ogun State Command Clement Oladele, who attributed the multiple accident to brake failure, urged public whose relations used the road corridor at the period, to contact the FRSC Command in Ota for more information about the crash, or the two Hospitals mentioned above Also, confirming accident, the TRACE Public Relations Officer, Babatunde Akinbiyi, said the driver of the truck escaped from the scene after the accident. Babatunde said: “The truck was inbound Lagos through the Tollgate when it suddenly developed break failure..
In the process, several vehicles and motorcycles in its front and by its side were hit, knocked before it eventually fell on one of them. “The truck in question was fully loaded with cement. In all, 9 casualties were involved, but it can’t be ascertained if they were all in the truck or among the vehicles hit, knocked, rammed over or the one the truck fell on. “The remains of the dead victims have been deposited at the Ifo General Hospital Mortuary, while the injured are receiving treatment at the General Hospital, Ota.”