The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has been mandated to tidy up the new contract of the Coach of Super Eagles Gernot  Rohr by next week. This directive was contained in the communiqué issued at the end of the video conference of NFF Executive Committee on Thursday May 14. The committee mandated the NFF Secretary General, Mohammed Sanusi to liaise with the German tactician with a view to tidy up the next contract within one week. Also to address the poor state of former players, the committee endorsed the re-jigging of the terms of reference and objectives of the NFF Foundation headed by Mohammed Edewor with a view to raising funds for empowerment initiatives for ex-internationals by way of training and skill development; football community and social change programmes; grassroots development programmes and; football-for the girl-child and women football empowerment programmes. Edewor, however, briefed the committee of ongoing efforts at raising funds to kick start the work of the Foundation. On the FIFA $500,000 relief fund, the board acknowledged and directed the secretariat to ensure the fund is well utilized as stated in the advice letter by FIFA. “The Board directed the Secretariat to immediately set machinery in motion to ensure the fund is utilized to the letter as advised by FIFA. The core areas approved for the utilization in line with the FIFA Forward 2.0 Program include but not limited to Management and Staff salaries, men’s league, women’s league, referees’ development training, National Teams (including boys’ and girls’ youth teams), office operations, renovations and furnishing of Bauchi NFF/FIFA Technical Centre,” stated the communiqué. They also lauded the efforts of government at tackling COVID-19, particularly Federal Ministry of Health, Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, all first responders and all other public health workers in the frontline for their efforts in reducing community transmission and saving lives. The Football Committee were also mandated to liaise with various leagues (Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL); Nigeria National League (NNL); Nigeria Women Football League NWFL) and; Nigeria Nation-wide League One) and other important stakeholders on the return of the domestic football season, subject to announcement by the Federal Government on resumption of football and other sporting activities in the country.