 Not less than 17 persons have been reported killed by gunmen in Gonan-Rogo village, Kufana District, Kajuru Local government Area of Kaduna state. In another development, armed men suspected to be kidnappers have abducted two persons during a night attack on Sabon-Jero village, New Millennium City, Chikun Local Government. The killings took place in the early hours of Tuesday when fully armed bandits invaded Gonan-Rogo village, setting houses ablaze while the villagers ran into the bush. President of the Adara Development Association (ADA), Mr. Awema Maisamari who confirmed the incident to The Nation on Tuesday said, the bandits who came to the village in large number, were armed with guns, machetes and knives. Maisamari said, some of the villagers were killed with guns while others were hacked to death with machetes. “The attackers invaded the community at about 1:00am on Tuesday and started shooting sporadically, killing people. “Twelve of of our people were killed on the spot, while the corpses of five others were recovered in the bush. There are those who sustained injuries. “Some were killed with machete, some were killed by gunshots. Some houses were burnt. Some of those who escaped to the bush are still missing. “About two hours after the bandits fled, the security personnel manning a checkpoint not too far from the community came. But they did not enter the community, they just stayed by the main road,” he narrated. Speaking on the kidnapping incident, a member of Sabon-Jero community, Adamu Murtala, said the kidnappers stormed the village around 9:40pm and broke into one house, kidnapping a housewife and her younger sister. According to him: “The kidnappers targeted the house because its owner was not at home. “Only his wife, her younger sister and children were in the house. So, they broke in and kidnapped the woman and her younger sister. “Soldiers came to the scene, but the gunmen had already abducted the two victims, and because they are many, they were able to escape with the victims.” Meanwhile, as at the time of filing this report, Kaduna State Police Command’s PPRO, ASP Mohammed Jalige, said, the Command was working on a statement on the killings.