 Uber is taking safety measures to help everyone who uses its app stay safe and healthy. From this week, Uber riders and drivers in Nigeria will be required to wear a mask or face covering during a trip. As part of a new in-app safety checklist, before drivers go online, they will be asked to take a selfie to verify they are wearing a mask or face covering using new object recognition technology. Any driver who is not wearing a mask or other face covering will not be able to go online. Drivers will also be asked to confirm they’ve taken additional safety measures such as regularly sanitising their car and making hand sanitiser available for their riders. While riders will be required to take safety precautions like washing their hands before getting in the car, sitting in the backseat and opening windows for ventilation. These new safety measures will be introduced today and stay in effect until the end of June, when they will be reviewed based on the latest official health guidance. Uber is also today allocating $50 million globally to help provide drivers and couriers with access to the protective equipment, cleaning and sanitising supplies they need to work more safely on the Uber app. This includes purchasing and distribution of more than seven million masks, and over 350,000 units of sanitising and cleaning supplies to drivers and couriers across Europe. In addition, Uber will partner with consumer goods company Unilever to provide hygiene kits to drivers and couriers in the United Kingdom, with plans to expand to more countries across Europe, the Middle East and Africa soon. The kits will include Cif (Jif) Antibacterial Multi-Purpose Spray and Lifebuoy alcohol-based hand gel, among other items. Uber Chief Executive Officer Dara Khosrowshahi said: “For months we’ve been urging people to stay home, for their safety and the safety of drivers who continue to make essential trips. Now, as cities begin to reopen and people start moving again, we’re taking unprecedented measures to help everyone stay safe and healthy, every time they use Uber. This includes working with partners like Unilever to help drivers, couriers and riders access the masks and hygiene kits they need to work and travel more safely.” His Unilever counterpart Alan Jope said: “As some countries around the world look to slowly ease out of lockdown, safe transportation will play a crucial role as we move into a new normal. And as people begin to venture out, we must collectively ensure that health and safety remains the absolute priority. We’re pleased that by partnering with Uber, and providing our trusted hygiene products, Unilever is able to help keep drivers, couriers and riders as safe as possible.” According to Uber, drivers can cancel a ride without a penalty if a rider isn’t wearing a mask or face covering. Riders can do the same. These cancellations must be related to safety concerns. Uber’s Community Guidelines prohibit discrimination against anyone based on their race or perceived national origin. 