 Sir: Outbreaks of infectious disease like the current COVID-19 can be terrifying and can affect our mental health. While it is important to stay informed, there are also many things we can do to support and manage our well-being during this time. These are extraordinary times no doubt and everyone is experiencing the coronavirus pandemic differently. Public health emergencies may affect the health, safety, and well-being of both individuals and communities. It can cause, for example, insecurity, confusion, emotional isolation, and stigma for individual, while devastating a community through economic loss, work and school closures, inadequate resources for medical response, and inefficient distribution of necessities. These effects may morph into a range of emotional reactions such as distress or psychiatric conditions). This can also translate to unhealthy behaviours such as excessive substance use, and noncompliance with public health directives such as home confinement and vaccination in people who contract the disease and in the general population. We are being inundated by the news media with every kind of information, most of which can cause anxiety when there is too much exposure to it. Social media too are proving to be more toxic in the face of this viral pandemic. Tons of information are being dumped on the citizens, with most being mere outright lies, doctored, conspiracy theories and outright abusive. One popular law of motion states that whatever goes up will come down. Remember that whatever you put into the atmosphere; you tend to get back – you have some control over that.  It is important to be honest and acknowledge emotions, and it’s important for parents to be open and honest with their children. Panic is not helpful. Be factual, explain what the risk is, and what can be done to reduce it. Be responsive – answer questions when they’re asked, and use words and ideas that your children can understand. Discuss the news with them but try and avoid over-exposure to coverage of the virus. Rumours and speculations fuel anxiety. Having access to good quality information about the virus can help you feel more in control. Listen to information from government agencies and official quarters only and adhere to guidance being given by them. This is very important. The Covid-19 pandemic has alarming implications for individual and collective health and emotional and social functioning no doubt. I salute our healthcare-givers for their courage patriotism and sacrifice especially in a country like Nigeria. This is a special moment when they can’t even cuddle their spouses or hug their children, while over-working and working overtime, all to take care of the rest of us. They also need to attend to their own mental health more at this time. 