 THROUGH its Environment and Water Resources Ministry, the Lagos State government has renewed the mandate given to relevant agencies to deliver a cleaner Centre of Excellence. Environment and Water Resources Commissioner Tunji Bello made the while presenting the scorecard of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on the environment as part of activities making the anniversary of his first year in office. The presentation was at the JJT Park, Alausa. Bello, who said his ministry has improved on the drainage network to ensure free the water ways of silts, added that all the drainage channels were being attended in what he described “a continuous cleaning and maintaining exercise”. He renewed commitment to a clean, healthy and sustainable environment for the well-being of the citizenry through the application of best practices in environmental management. Bello also said that one of the first steps taken was the rejuvenation of the Lagos State Waste Management Authority (LAWMA), the agency driving the waste collection and management efforts. The state, he noted was cleaner due to the strategies put in place to stabilise waste collection on public highways in areas such as Ikeja, Agege, Alimosho, Iba, Otto Awori and Badagry Expressway. The commissioner said the government has been monitoring the activities of accredited Private Sector Participants (PSP) through LAWMA for efficiency in service delivery. On the efforts being made to promote extraction of resources and use of recycling to conserve natural resources, he said: “We are encouraging sorting of wastes at source and encouraging people to generate revenue from their waste.” The government decided to rebrand and reposition the Lagos Environmental sanitation Corps (LAGESC) now to be known as Kick Against Indiscipline (KAI). “The operatives will now adorn the green uniform which symbolises the environment unlike the previous peach coloured uniform  and will stick to their primary role of ensuring that people obey all sanitation laws” Bello explained. Besides, he said the organisation has expanded its operational division to 21 from 10 for efficiency. Bello said: “We have been engaging in regular desilting of all drainage channels through its Emergency Flood Abatement Gangs and has also procured tipping trucks that swiftly carts away the silts generated from the cleaned drains. “From January till date, the Emergency Flood Abatement Gang (EFAG) has carried out routine maintenance cleaning and emergency de-flooding interventions on 47 Nos. Secondary Collector Drains, about 13 critical channels have been worked on so far which includes dredging and maintenance, while an approval has been gotten for the maintenance cleaning of 192 secondary collectors spread throughout the 20 local government areas”. Answering a question on reports from the citizens on noise pollution, Bello disclosed that the government has successfully reduced noise pollution in religious houses, club houses and events centres. He disclosed further that while LASEPA monitors noise level at religious houses and clubs, government has also assisted in curtailing the excesses of patrons of such  clubs who block roads and cause traffic congestion all in the name of unwinding. “As part of effort towards curbing the spread of Covid19 pandemic, LASEPA also conducted Air Quality Assessment of Lagos Environment during COVID-19 lockdown in partnership with the Nigeria Environmental Society (NES) to generate data on the air quality of Lagos in relation to the covid-19 pandemic as a basis for possible policy formulations during post COVID-19 era. “The agency was also at the forefront of testing chemicals and concentrates used in disinfecting major bus stops, motor parks and garages during the lockdown.” At the briefing were the Special Adviser to the Governor on Drainages, Joe Igbokwe, Permanent Secretary, Office of Environment Services, Mrs. Aderonke Odeneye and Permanent Secretary, Office of Drainage Services, Lekan Shodeinde.