A four-month old is one of the 20 new COVID-19 cases recorded in Kaduna on Friday, its Ministry of Health has confirmed. The ministry also disclosed the 20 new cases include six health workers. In a statement by the Commissioner of Health, Dr Amina Mohammed Baloni on Saturday, the ministry revealed that investigations indicate that the father of the infected child has travel history to Kano. ‘’The infant, who had been brought to hospital for respiratory issues, was tested in accordance with the updated guidelines which advise that persons presenting with such symptoms be tested,” she added. Baloni further said that the child’s ‘’parents have also been tested and their results are being awaited.’’ The Commissioner further said that 15 cases out of the 20 new patients are family members or close contacts of previously confirmed cases, adding that the new cases are spread across seven local government areas. ‘’Chikun has seven (including five members of the same family), Giwa recorded four from the Shika community while three cases are in Kaduna North. Sabon-Gari and Kaduna South have two cases each, while Igabi and Zaria have one each.” She said. The statement added: “Six health workers are among the new cases, underlining the risks associated with containing and managing Covid-19.” According to Baloni, the latest cases show that Covid-19 has spread into nine local governments, including Chikun, Igabi and Giwa, as well as Kaduna North, Kaduna South, Makarfi, Sabon-Gari, Soba and Zaria area councils. ‘’This widening spread of Covid-19 means that the risk of infection has increased for persons who do not stay at home or who fail to observe necessary precautions when they go out,’’ she said. Dr Baloni advised parents to shun non-essential travel or interactions to avoid taking the virus home and infecting their children and loved ones, adding that ‘’they must also exercise personal responsibility regarding not allowing visitors into their homes.’’ The Commissioner said that everyone owes his or her family, a duty of care by not exposing them to visits and interactions hat increase their risk of being infected. The statement revealed that ‘’one of the Covid-19 fatalities in the state got infected when he received visitors at home. ‘’Elderly persons and those with chronic conditions such as diabetes, hypertension and respiratory diseases are more vulnerable to complications of Covid-19 infection. Dr Baloni appealed to all residents to wash their hands regularly with soap and water, wear facemasks if they have compelling reasons to go out, observe physical distancing and avoid large gatherings. ‘’Our communities should also continue the public service of reporting suspicious cases in their areas,” the Commissioner added.