Welcome to May! I believe we must have had some definite encounters with diverse success keys all through the month of April, 2020. I also believe that God must have listed many of us among the highflyers of His Kingdom through diverse encounters. My prayer is that the impact of these encounters will be for a lifetime, in the name of Jesus (Amen)! This week, we shall focus on: Jesus: The Great Physician! From Scriptures, we discover that our health is an important part of God’s redemptive plan for the saints. Exodus 15:26 says, If thou wilt diligently hearken to the voice of the LORD thy God, and wilt do that which is right in his sight, and wilt give ear to his commandments, and keep all his statutes, I will put none of these diseases upon thee, which I have brought upon the Egyptians: for I [am] the LORD that healeth thee. However, in order to fulfil the above in the lives of the redeemed, God sent Jesus to save the world and pay for the healing of the redeemed. Thus, Jesus introduced Himself as the Great Physician in Matthew 9:10-13. He is the Great Physician who was prophesied about in Isaiah 53:4-5. Matthew 8:17 says concerning Him, …Himself took our infirmities, and bare our sicknesses. Many have accepted Jesus as their Saviour but very few have accepted Him as their Healer. We must understand that He is not only the Saviour of our souls; He is also the Saviour of our bodies. Jesus already took our infirmities and bore our sicknesses. Not that He is coming to take, No! So, it is a matter of past tense; something that has been concluded. Also, we understand that Jesus never referred any case because He was never stranded handling any situation. He was absolutely and perfectly in charge when it came to getting the health of people restored. For it is written, All things were made by him; and without him was not any thing made that was made. In him was life; and the life was the light of men. And the light shineth in darkness; and the darkness comprehended it not (John 1:3-5). He declared in John 10:10, …I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly. For three and half years, Jesus demonstrated the reality of His ministry as the Great Physician. Acts 10:38 sums it up, How God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Ghost and with power: who went about doing good, and healing all that were oppressed of the devil; for God was with him. Let’s look at some records of His healing ministry in person. When the sick came to Jesus, He healed them all! He is the same yesterday, today and forever. He has not changed; He will never change. If He healed them all yesterday, He will heal them all today and tomorrow. The Bible records, And he came down with them, and stood in the plain, and the company of his disciples, and a great multitude of people out of all Judaea and Jerusalem, and from the sea coast of Tyre and Sidon, which came to hear him, and to be healed of their diseases; And they that were vexed with unclean spirits: and they were healed. And the whole multitude sought to touch him: for there went virtue out of him, and healed them all (Luke 6:17-19; see also Matthew 8:16). And when they were gone over, they came into the land of Gennesaret. And when the men of that place had knowledge of him, they sent out into all that country round about, and brought unto him all that were diseased; And besought him that they might only touch the hem of his garment: and as many as touched were made perfectly whole (Matthew 14:34-36). What was responsible for this? The virtue, which flowed from the anointed of God to the clothes He wore and as many as touched Him received their healing. There was a woman who first tapped into this mystery of impartation of virtue (Matthew 9:20-22). And it came to pass on a certain day, as he was teaching, that there were Pharisees and doctors of the law sitting by, which were come out of every town of Galilee, and Judaea, and Jerusalem: and the power of the Lord was present to heal them (Luke 5:17). God’s Word carries the Spirit of God and the Spirit of God is the power of God. Thus, when He spoke the Word; the power of God was released and it took care of the people’s sicknesses and diseases. And they bring unto him one that was deaf, and had an impediment in his speech; and they beseech him to put his hand upon him. And he took him aside from the multitude, and put his fingers into his ears, and he spit, and touched his tongue; And looking up to heaven, he sighed, and saith unto him, Ephphatha, that is, Be opened. And straightway his ears were opened, and the string of his tongue was loosed, and he spake plain. And he charged them that they should tell no man: but the more he charged them, so much the more a great deal they published it; And were beyond measure astonished, saying, He hath done all things well: he maketh both the deaf to hear, and the dumb to speak (Mark 7:32-37). Jesus never sympathised with any man, He healed them all. The four gospels are full of various accounts of the ministry of Jesus as the Great Physician fulfilling His claim that He came, …that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly (John 10:10). In conclusion, before you can have access to the manifold power of the Great Physician, you must be born again. Are you born again? If you are not, this is an opportunity to do so. Simply say the following prayer: Lord Jesus, I come to You today. I am a sinner. Forgive me of my sins. Cleanse me with Your precious Blood. Today, I accept You as my Lord and personal Saviour. Thank You, Jesus, for saving me! Now, I know I am born again! For further reading, get my books: Keys to Divine Health, The Healing Balm, The Miracle Meal, All you Need to have all your Needs Met and Fulfilling Your Days. I invite you to fellowship with us at the Faith Tabernacle, Canaanland, Ota, the covenant home of Winners. We have four services on Sundays, holding at 6:00 a.m., 7:50 a.m., 9:40 a.m. and 11:30 a.m. respectively. I know this teaching has blessed you. Write and share your testimony with me through: Faith Tabernacle, Canaanland, Ota, P.M.B. 21688, Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria, or call 01-4548070, 01-4548280, or E-mail: feedback@lfcww.org, Facebook: David Oyedepo Ministries International, Twitter: @DavidOyedepoMin.