Hard work has paid off for Olufunke Oshonaike as she booked her place in the forthcoming Tokyo Olympics and she would be the first African female athlete to qualify for seven Olympic Games as well as the first female table tennis player in the world to join the International Table Tennis Federation’s  ‘club seven’, reports OLALEKAN OKUSAN. Olufunke Oshonaike’s record as the most successful African female table tennis player stands her out. The 44-year-old and mother of two wants to concentrate on inspiring youngsters to shine in table tennis. “I’m the happiest woman in the world today, I still can’t believe it, it feels as if I’m still dreaming,” she said the day she picked her ticket for what would be her seventh appearance at the forthcoming Tokyo Olympics. “I started training in January because of my health, I trained very hard and we are all nervous here, so I am just the happiest woman to have qualified. “I can be able to tell everyone not to give up no matter the situation follow your dream put God first in everything, and you will surely make it.” After Tokyo Olympics, Oshonaike said she was ready to throw in the towel but with eyes for the future: “I want to do more but for now. I have the Funke Oshonaike Foundation where I give kits to children. The kids doing sports in Nigeria are from low backgrounds not from rich family. To get equipment is very hard. Because when you talk about talent, we have too much in Nigeria, too much.” Despite her exploits, Oshonaike is pained that Nigeria is not producing more female players like their male counterparts: “In Nigeria, I remember growing up, though we have good coaches unfortunately we don’t have enough good coaches now, you know we have a lot of distraction because of the social media thing, so the female players need someone like a father that is going to be a good trainer, coach, psychologist which we don’t have in Nigeria, the coaches might get angry with me for this but I’m so sorry I have to say we don’t have anyone in Nigeria like that, everybody kept saying our females are not improving but then they forgot one thing the support a father will give to a child they are lacking it because they do things on their own and apart from that they are all giving up. We have lots of talented ones in Nigeria but the problem is training and lot of them are giving up.” Recalling her maiden outing at the Olympic Games, Oshonaike reminiscences: “I was supposed to go for Barcelona 1992 in Spain but my coach told me I was young so I should allow the older ones to go that I still have enough chances and look at me now, I’ve qualified for the seventh one, I never dreamt of it, it’s just God in my life. “I still love what I’m doing. Every time I thought of stopping, I would be like, ‘Oh, I’m going to miss a lot of people. I am going to miss the team, the Olympics, the Olympic village’ because it’s another world. “Though a lot of people are asking me” ‘when are you giving up? Don’t you know you are an old woman?’ “But I keep telling them that, ‘If I don’t tell you my age, would you still tell me that?’ My body tells me that I can still play very good. Why shouldn’t I continue?” she noted. Despite not having any medal to show for her appearance at the Olympic Games, she said: “Olympic is the best, every athlete wants to go for Olympics but like I said before it is not everyone that can go to the Olympics. Unfortunately I have not been able to win medal because as you all know the Chinese, Japanese and Koreans are our problem. I’m going to put in my best because it is the last for me.” The 11-time African Games medallist admitted that joining the Olympics’ Club Seven did not come on a platter of gold but having a good attitude, a lot of mental and physical strength boosted her confidence as an athlete. She explained: “I keep telling people that I have gone through a lot in my life. People just see me and I’m always smiling but I go through a lot of pain. I cry and cry. “You have it good, have it bad when you fall, dust everything out and keep on moving. Don’t give up on your dream. I know what I want and I’m going for it. In Nigeria a lot of people were telling me, ‘Funke you are 45, why are you not giving other people chances?’ I tell them, ‘I’m not holding anyone down.” Now Oshonaike has joined the International Table Tennis Federation’s ‘ Club Seven’ along  with  her compatriot- Segun Toriola as well as  Belgium’s Jean-Michel Saive, Croatia’s Zoran Primorac and Jorgen Persson of Sweden. “The Club Seven  has only men who have been to seven Olympics in table tennis. Only men, I will be the only woman from Africa, the whole world at the Tokyo Olympics. That has been my dream,” she said. Oshonaike has described the postponement of Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games as a setback to her retirement but admitted that it has also shifted her retirement date to 2021. Oshonaike who said she was not surprised with the decision of the International Olympic Committee (IOC) to postpone the games to 2021, adding that safety of athletes must take precedent over competition. “I am not surprised that the games have been postponed because I was actually expecting it. But what I did not like initially is when people were pressurizing IOC to make the decision earlier. But that the games have now been postponed is a good development for athletes and officials. But for me it is a setback to my retirement because I was planning to quit this year after the Tokyo Olympic Games and now I my retirement has now been postponed till 2021,” she said. “The postponement will surely give athletes the chance to prepare very well for the games and it will also help me as well. I am indeed looking forward to my last Olympic Games having started at Atlanta 1996 in United States,” she added.