Mouthpiece of Southern Kaduna People, the Southern Kaduna Peoples Union (SOKAPU), has cried out bandits have turned their wives and daughters into sex slaves and cooks. It lamented 27 of their kinsmen have been killed in the recent attacks on villages of Kajuru Local Government area of Kaduna State. However, Kaduna State Police Command in its statement on the recent attacks, insisted only 15 were killed in the attack while five sustained injuries. SOKAPU’s National President, Mr. Jonathan Asake, told reporters on Thursday that 27 lives were lost within 48 hours of the attacks on Kajuru villages. He also claimed about 15,000 of southern Kaduna natives have been displaced from their ancestral lands by the bandits who he alleged are “Fulani herdsmen”. Asake, a former member of the House of Representatives, called for rescue of his people, saying  southern Kaduna communities are under siege of “Fulani militia’ attacks.” According to him, the bandits sacked Galiwyi community in Chikun LGA, chasing away their men and “turned their wives and daughters into sex slaves after occupying the community “On Monday May 11, 2020, Gonar Rogo, another defenceless community in Kajuru Local Government Area, came under assault from Fulani Herdsmen Militia. “The following day, the attackers extended their murderous expedition to Bakin Kogi where residents had fled the town. “They burnt down the town and launched another assault on another village, Idanu. In the early hours of Wednesday, the murderous gang of terrorists moved to Makyali where several persons were killed. In Agwala village, an old lady was mercilessly hacked to death. “In total, these attacks have so far claimed 27 lives within 48 hours, while the injured have been taken to various medical facilities for attention. Efele, Ungwan Modi and Ungwan Rana villages were also attacked and hundreds of residents displaced. “Galiwyi community in Chikun LGA came under invasion by herdsmen militia who chased away the men and turned their wives and daughters into sex slaves after occupying the community. Also, Kaduna chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) condemned persistent killings in Kajuru. Its chairman, Rev. John Hayab, described the killing as disturbing and unacceptable. In a statement in Kaduna, he said: “CAN Kaduna State Chapter is disturbed by the frequent attacks on Kajuru communities. “Recently, the general frenzy is that despite the continuing attacks on hapless Kajuru communities, those responsible for ensuring the security of lives and property are only but playing lips service to the security challenge. “Apparently, the honesty and commitment towards seeking lasting solutions to wanton destructions of lives are lacking, resorting to the usual propaganda. “No responsible government anywhere will act as if nothing was happening when a section of her citizens are killed.”