The enforcement of Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19) dusk-to-dawn curfew ordered by the Federal Government has recorded a casualty in Edo State, with hoodlums who attacked a police headquarters, gruesomely murdering Inspector Felix Egbon. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) of Edo Command, Chidi Nwabuzor, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), Saturday in an online statement, described the incident as quite unfortunate, but he gave an assurance that lives and property of residents of the state always be adequately protected. Nwabuzor said: “Edo State Police Command wishes to inform the general public of the attack on the operatives of Auchi Divisional Police Headquarters, Auchi, Edo State and the gruesome murder of a Police Inspector Felix Egbon during the process “On Friday, May 8, 2020 at about 9 p.m., Inspector Felix Egbon and team were attacked with guns and other dangerous weapons by unknown hoodlums, who emerged from the bush at Iyetse Quarters, Auchi, while enforcing COVID-19 curfew imposed by the Federal Government of Nigeria from 8 p,m. to 6 a.m. In the process, Inspector Felix Egbon was shot on the neck. He was immediately rushed to the General Hospital, Auchi, where he gave up the ghost. “Consequently, the Commissioner of Police, Edo State Command, Lawan Jimeta, has ordered for full-scale investigation into the gruesome murder of the Police Inspector and he solicits for the assistance of the sister security agencies, vigilance group and hunters in the area in arresting the perpetrators. “Edo State Commissioner of Police also pleads with the traditional rulers, village heads and youth leaders to assist in providing information that may lead to fishing out those responsible for the dastardly act. He warns the perpetrators to submit themselves to the police. “Edo State Police Command reiterates its resolve to continually protect the lives and property of the good citizens of the state, in line with its constitutional mandate.” Jimeta had earlier stated that the police command was clamping down on criminals in Edo, assuring that hoodlums would no longer have space to operate in the state.