Even before the first phase of the easing of the lockdown to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic began on Monday, the twin shocks of the scourge and sharp fall in oil prices had set the stage for an imminent food crisis. While the containment measures against the pandemic affected domestic food supply chains by constraining farmers, tumbling crude oil prices worsened the nation’s fiscal woes. Now, Nigerians are in for a long-drawn battle with food insecurity. Assistant Editor CHIKODI OKEREOCHA reports. A strategy to ensure that the impact of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic on this year’s farming season is minimised is being worked out. Indication to this emerged penultimate week when President Muhammadu Buhari, as part of the government’s response, directed the setting up of an ad-hoc committee “to ensure the impact of this pandemic on our 2020 farming season is minimised.” To make this happen, the president, who conveyed this response via his April 13 address announcing the extension of the Covid-19 pandemic lockdown, directed the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, the National Security Adviser, the Vice Chairman, National Food Security Council and the Chairman, Presidential Fertiliser Initiative to work with the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19. Buhari also went a notch higher, informing Nigerians that to ensure the economy adapts to the new reality forced by the pandemic, the Ministers of Industry, Trade and Investment, Communication and Digital Economy, Science and Technology, Transportation, Aviation, Interior, Health, Works and Housing, Labour and Employment and Education have been directed to develop a comprehensive policy for a “Nigerian economy functioning with Covid-19”. However, while these interventions are necessary, timely and highly commendable, some policy analysts and agricultural experts are doubtful if they can halt the contraction of agricultural production in this year’s farming season and even next year, let alone help position Nigeria to become a self-sufficient food producer post-Covid-19. They argue, for instance, that the policy responses were belated; that the dislocation of the agricultural production and food supply chain caused by containment measures against Covid-19 would probably not have been this devastating if the authorities had heeded earlier calls to match increasing population growth rate with enough food production. The rampaging virus was first identified last December, in Wuhan, Central China. The pandemic eventually found its way into Nigeria on February 27. But, before then, the United Nations (UN) had projected that Nigeria, with an estimated 200 million population, will hit 400 million by 2050. The UN said at the 3.2 per cent population growth rate, Africa’s largest and most populous nation will overtake United States by 2050. Expectedly, the projection jolted experts from diverse sectors hence they renewed their call on the authorities, working with operators in the agricultural sector, to boost food production to ward off the unsavoury consequences of food insecurity and poverty. Unfortunately, their wise counsel failed to hit the right chord in the ears of the economic managers, especially those in the agric sector. They obviously did not see the need to address the myriad challenges facing agricultural productivity, such as insufficient farm mechanisation, and lack of electricity supply to support value addition and prolonged shelf life of perishable produce. Others issues hurting the attainment of food sufficiency and food security include post-harvest losses caused by poor handling and lack of modern processing facility, high cost of farm inputs, such as fertiliser and other agro-chemicals. Persistent calls for interest-friendly loans for farmers appear to have also gone unheeded. Although the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) said it created several lending programmes and provided hundreds of billions to smallholder farmers and industrial processors in several key agricultural produce, many farmers are still agonising over lack of credit facilities to embark on large scale farming. Now, the chickens have come home to roast. The twin shocks of the  pandemic and the associated sharp fall in oil prices have combined to set the stage for an impending food crisis in Nigeria. This came as measures put in place by the Federal and state governments to contain the spread of the pandemic dislocated the domestic food production and supply chain by constraining farmers from planting, managing and harvesting critical crops. The Lagos State Government and a few other states first responded to the spread of the pandemic by announcing partial restriction of human and vehicular movement. But the rising number of confirmed the virus cases compelled President Muhammadu Buhari to announce a  shutdown of Lagos, Ogun states, as well as the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Other states followed suit with either total or partial restriction of movement to contain the spread of the virus. But, in doing so, the nation’s food production and supply chain took the hit. Small holder farmers had limited access to inputs such as fertilisers, just as input providers were unable to reach farmers in their locations. Farmers who manage to have access to input could not access their farms to plant or harvest. Their access to markets was also impeded. Also, importers of farm input contended with rising prices because of the rise in dollar compounded by the Covid-19 crisis. Price of farm input went up by as much as 24 per cent, which overall, impacted on cost of production, leading to increase in food prices. Farmers who could not afford the necessary input for their production were hit by lower yield. African Development Bank (AfDB) Director of Agriculture and Agro-industry Dr. Martin Fregene and Director of Agricultural Finance and Rural Development Atsuko Toda observed that anti-pandemic measures like nationwide lockdowns and border closures compounded food shortages, especially of nutritious but perishable foods like fruit and vegetables. The experts noted that restrictions on movement and quarantine measures impeded farmers’ access to markets. They pointed out, for instance, that in Nigeria, rice prices were 30 per cent higher than in January, thanks to panic buying, transport restrictions and rising global prices. The situation was critical to the extent that the management of the National Agricultural Seeds Council, Nigeria’s seed industry regulator, had to liaise with the government to grant permits to agricultural workers to address some of the farmers’ needs in terms of seed supply, as the farming season commences. The Council’s spokesperson, Folarin Okelola, even admitted that getting to his office was challenging. The gravity of the food crisis staring Nigerians in the face after the relaxation of the lockdown is not lost on the Minister of Agriculture, Muhammed Sabo Nanono. “There is no question about it that there is an imminent problem of food insecurity, not only in Nigeria, but also in nations all over the world,” he said. The Minister, however, noted that Nigeria had at least 38, 000 tonnes of grains in government-controlled strategic reserves, but looking to replenish with 100, 000 additional tonnes. According to the Minister, movement restrictions of people and goods impacted on food processors, traders, trucking and logistics in the food supply chains hence, it was necessary to work out solutions that would facilitate easy access to food supply chain in the country as the disruptions of economic activities caused by the COVID-19 pandemic were glaring and threatens the domestic food supply chains. “More worrisome is the fact that the Covid-19 crisis could potentially spark a food security crisis in Africa, with agricultural production potentially contracting in 2020 and 2021,” he said. This is so considering  that the stay-at-home order, which is being gradually relaxed, stopped pepper, tomato, Okro, and fluted pumpkin farmers, among others, getting to their farms to harvest their crops and supply to various markets. Nanono expressed concern about the restrictions in the rural areas where the chunk of Nigeria’s agricultural produce came from. According to him, the rural areas are dependent on access to input to produce crops and access to markets for their output across the country. “If enough foodstuffs were not produce in the rural areas, it would increase in costs of food items in urban areas,” he stated. Heartache over crashing oil prices Oil prices have dipped to historical lows, hitting as low as $17 per barrel at a point. The demand for oil reduced significantly as a result of the outbreak of Covid-19. China, the epicentre of the Covid-19 pandemic, is the world’s second largest consumer of oil and its demand for oil alone reduced by 20 per cent. The spread of the covid-19 dampened demand from China and and European refiners. However, the dramatic dip in oil price is not entirely caused by the pandemic. Oil production is said to have outpaced demand due to the impasse between Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and OPEC + (Russia) in a bid to rein in threats from the surge in the US on oil production. It is easy to see the connection between tumbling oil prices and food insecurity. Oil revenue accounts for about 50 per cent of government revenue and about 85 per cent of foreign exchange earnings. With the scenario of tumbling oil price, a drastic reduction in the revenue of government has become inevitable. Already, Nigeria has reduced her projection of 2.1 million barrels daily of oil production to 1.7 million and has cut a record $35 billion budget for the year based on an oil price of $57 a barrel, down by about 15 per cent. This means that budget implementation has been constrained; infrastructure financing will be affected; borrowing may increase, and the capacity to fund capital projects has been severely constricted. It also means, by extension, that the government’s ability to continue to fund the nation’s huge food import bill has been seriously constrained. Beyond the fact that the increase in the cost of food importation has become unsustainable, several countries are said to have resorted to export restrictions of critical agricultural produce. Citing the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI), CBN Governor Godwin Emefiele recently said, for instance, that about 37 countries have enacted various forms of food export restrictions in response to Covid-19, even in countries where average production exceeds domestic consumption. Emefiele said, for example, that Vietnam, the world’s third largest exporter of rice, suspended granting rice export certificates until the country “reviews domestic inventories”. Russia, the world’s largest wheat exporter, also announced a 10-day ban on the export of buckwheat and rice due to concerns over panic buying in local supermarkets. Apparently worried by the situation, the CBN boss raised some posers: “What if these restrictions become the new normal? What if the Covid-19 pandemic continues in a second wave or another pandemic occurs in which all borders are shut, and food imports are significantly restricted?” He said although these developments were troubling, they presented an opportunity to re-echo a persistent message the apex bank has been sending for a long time, and at this time, even more urgently so: Nigeria must look inwards as a nation and guarantee food security…. “For a country of over 200 million people, and projected to be about 450 million in a few decades, we can no longer ignore repeated warnings about the dangers that lie ahead if we do not begin to depend largely on what we produce locally, because the security and well-being of our nation is contingent on building a well-diversified and inclusive productive economy,” Emefiele said. To address the food crisis, Toda and Fregene recommended some short-term measures, including the creation of a “green channel” for the free flow of food and agricultural input, creation of strong demand for agricultural inputs of fertiliser, seeds and agro-chemicals through smart input famer subsidies. They also said there was the need for measures to prevent food price hikes by releasing food from government grain reserves and implementing anti-hoarding policy; rapid scale up of food production technologies, including high-yielding, early-maturing, drought-tolerant, disease- and pest-resistant staple crops, livestock and fish. The experts also recommended medium to longer-term food security interventions including provision of recovery strategy support to key supply chain players like logistics companies and anchor farmers; strengthening food supply chain resilience via efficient production, processing and value addition; enforcing food safety, improved food quality and traceability policies in the post-coronavirus period.