Traditional rulers in Akure North Local Government Area of Ondo State have warned the Deji of Akure, Oba Aladetoyinbo Aladelusi, to stop ‘further provocative, reckless and aggressive acts of removing and imposing Olus and minor chiefs in the council area’. They said the Deji’s action was a violation of the government’s white papers, traditional and courts’ judgments. The monarchs spoke under the auspices of the Chieftaincy Committee of Akure North Local Government Area. Their statement was signed by their Chairman and Okiti of Iju, Amos Farunkanmi; Oloba of Oba-Ile, Joseph Agunbiade and the Ogbolu of Ita-Ogbolu, Idowu Faborode. They vowed not to allow the excesses of Oba Aladetoyinbo at Eleyowo, Igoba, Isinigbo, Ajebandele Tedibomi and other parts of Igbatoro. The statement reads: “The provocation and aggression of the Deji of Akure against the traditional establishments in Akure North are becoming too many to be tolerated. Sadly, it is now becoming clearer that Oba Aladelusi is either confused or mischievous as to the territorial boundaries of Akure Town. Oba-Ile, Ita-Ogbolu, Iju, Ayede-Ogbese, Osi, Eleyowo, Isinigbo, Owode, and other communities in Akure North are not and have never been part of Akure Town, as the Deji is now claiming. “The recognised Chiefs or Obas in Akure North have instituted an action against the Deji, for his provocative and unconstitutional incursions into Akure North to brew crises and make illegal appointments of Olus and Baales. The case is still pending before the Ondo State High Court 6, Akure. Hearing has not been concluded, not to talk of judgment. “Oba Aladelusi has been deceiving the people that the court has declared him the prescribed and consenting authority over the entire communities in Akure North, though consenting authority had been abolished since 1981. This is patently false. If the Deji has such judgment, let him go to the court and enforce it…” But Oba Aladelusi, who spoke through his Chief Press Secretary, Michael Adeyeye, said he remains the prescribed authority on minor chiefs and Olus in Akure North. “The jurisdiction of Oloba of Oba-Ile is only limited to Oba-Ile town in Akure North, as every other communities in the council are traditionally and historically under the domain of the Deji of Akure. “Prior to the installation of recognised kings in Iju, Ita-Ogbolu and Ogbese, all in Akure North, the Deji was the consenting and prescribed authority over the appointment and installation of minor chieftaincies in these communities (i.e. appointment/ installation of Baales and Olus),” he said.