 Music director and cinematographer Clarence Peters has been arrested by the police in Lagos over the death of dancer Love Divines alias Kodak. Kodak was said to have been electrocuted while charging and using her iphone on Wednesday at Peters’ Omole Phase One residence. She was alleged to have operated the plugged phone while sitting almost naked on the door railings with no foot wear on. She was also said to have sustained burns on her chest where her phone allegedly fell when she flung it as a result of the shock. Although initial reports claimed she died on the set of a music video, it was however debunked as the planned video was alleged to have been botched following her death.  The Nation learnt that Peters was invited at the State Criminal Intelligence and Investigation Department (SCIID), Panti, Yaba for questioning on Saturday night and has been detained since then. Meanwhile, the dancer’s mother has taken to social media to denounce those impersonating her and sending account numbers for donations. The woman, in a video shared on social media, said she neither authorised anyone nor was aware of such moves, describing those behind the fundraiser as fraudsters. She said: “It’s a pity that she’s (Kodak’s) gone and it is painful. I just got information that a lady is posing herself to be me. I am Lasatanatu Ike, her mother. “I have also been told that an account number is online. I have not posted my account number online. “The girl seated next to me is her elder sister by the name Shekinah Glory Ike. Please I want you all to stand up and help me fight as you can see I cannot fight.” Contacted, Police spokesman Bala Elkana confirmed the arrest of Clarence Peters, adding that the command was investigating the circumstances that led to the dancer’s death. Elkana said Peters and all those who were at his residence when the incident occurred have been invited for questioning, adding that he would not be able to give further details at the moment. On the allegation by the dancer’s mother, Elkana said no formal complaint of impersonation has been made, adding that the video would be forwarded to the SCIID for further action.