 THIS week’s celebrities are some of the brightest stars in the radio and TV sectors of entertainment. Apart from the fact that they are talented, pretty and super-smart, they are also single and some are searching. From ageless beauties to the super-gorgeous, these presenters all have some things in common: they are all good -looking and super single!  Moet Abebe Who doesn’t know Moet Abebe? Laura Monyeazo Abebe, popularly known as Moet Abebe, is a Nigerian video jockey, television presenter, actress and catering executive. She’s everything rolled into one!  Two words describe her: daring and smart!  Toke Makinwa Nigerian radio personality, television host, blogger, lifestyle entrepreneur and author, Toke Makinwa is one of the most popular radio persons in Nigeria. Confident, sure-footed and bold, Toke shines always. Whether she is jump-suits or maxi-dresses or incasuals or trendy wear, the author and branding genius sure knows how to dot her i’s and cross her t’s.   Nancy Isime One of the hottest OAPs and actresses, Nancy has a very peculiar snazzy look that sets her apart. A model, she has worked with Ade Bakere, Adebayo Jones, Zizi Cardow, Shakara Couture, among others.  Bolanle Olukanni Bolanle is stylish and smart. She’s a Nigerian TV presenter, popularly known for hosting Moments with Mo on DStv and Project Fame West Africa. She always nails it at events with her stylish and gorgeous outfits. Kiki Mordi Award-wining investigate journalist, writer, filmmaker, and presenter, Kiki Mordi, is a BBC Eye reporter and head of presenting at WFM 91.7. Eku Edewor From whatever angle you look at her, Eku Edewor is beautiful. She is a smart dresser wearing only things that make her comfortable and add to her beauty. Kaylah Oniwo This on-air personality with Cool FM, Kaylah Oniwo, is a multi-talented brand ambassador and stage artiste. Kaylah is self-confident and smart. Do2tun Oladotun Ojuolape Kayode, better known as Do2tun, is a Nigerian on-air personality, video jockey, actor and media entrepreneur. Do2tun is both sexy on and off air. Whether he is posing for a quick photo or walking on the red carpet, his bold expressive style reflects his fun-loving character! Uti Nwanchukwu Popular presenter from the show “Jara,” Uti is a model, actor and  OAP. Popularly known as Sir Uti, he is one to bring his best foot forward on and off the red carpet. He has a cute fashion sense. DJ Spinall Sodamola Oluseye Desmond, professionally known as DJ Spinall, is a Nigerian Disc Jockey, record producer, songwriter, label executive, and media personality. DJ Spinall created a style that is unique to his outfit, known as TheCAP. His dressing is not complete without this trade-mark African style-inspired cap. Yvonne Ekwere Yvonne Imoh-Abasi Glory Ekwere, popularly known as Yvonne Vixen Ekwere, is a Nigerian media personality, content producer and actress, who works as the presenter of E-Weekly on Silverbird Television. And when it comes to looking good, you won’t find her in the middle.