  THE founder of DAAR Communications Plc, owners of Africa International Television (AIT) and Raypower FM, Chief Raymond Dokpesi, has tested positive for coronavirus disease also known as COVID-19. Also tested positive for the virus were three of his children and five other relations, including the wife of his son and DAAR Communications Chairman, Raymond Dokpesi Jnr. Before a statement issued by the management of DAAR Communications revealing the health status of High Chief Dokpesi on Friday, Dokpesi Jnr had reportedly tested positive for the virus and had been admitted into an isolation centre in Gwagwalada, Abuja. The test carried out on High Chief Dokpesi and other family members who tested positive for the virus was believed to have been necessitated by the contacts they had with Dokpesi Jnr. The statement issued by the management of DAAR Communications yesterday reads: Following the test that was carried out on our Chairman, Chief Raymond Dokpesi Jnr on Thursday April 23, 2020 by the NCDC (National Centre for Disease Control) which eventually proved positive and his subsequent admission into the isolation centre on April 24, 2020, we wish to state that in conformity with the Federal Government protocol on the COVID 19 administration and management, his entire household and those that had contacts with him were subsequently subjected to the test, and with so much emotional pains, we hereby announce that the under listed have equally been confirmed positive: 1. High Chief Aleogho Dokpesi (his father/founder DAAR Communications PLC); 2. Our Chairman’s wife; 3. His 3 children; 4. Some relatives. A total of 8. “They are all presently on their way to the Federal Government isolation centre at Gwagwalada in Abuja. “The Board, Management and the entire staff wish them their prayers and the grace of the good Lord for speedy recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic.” A report on AIT on Friday quoted High Chief Dokpesi as saying that he was feeling well before he got into the ambulance that conveyed him to the hospital. “I am quite ok. I feel very well,” he was quoted as saying. Contact tracing reportedly commenced immediately with his family members, including his father and members of his household. Members of the senior management and staff of DAAR Communications who had been in close contact with the company’s index case were also said to have been tested. The report also said the headquarters of DAAR Communications at Kpaduma Hills in Asokoro, Abuja, had been decontaminated.