Armed bandits suspected to be kidnappers have attacked four communities of Kuriga, Komo, Danhonu II and Doka Mai Jama’a, all in Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State on Monday. The gunmen in the separate attacks abducted 15 persons including a Village Head, while a security guard, Emmanuel Yerima was killed. The Kuriga and Komo Communities attacks took place in the early hours of Monday between 4:00am and 5:00am while the Danhonu II and Doka Mai Jama’a, attack happened at about 10:00pm. The Nation learnt that, the gunmen first attacked Manini Village in Kuriga District of Chikun LG, breaking into shop and carting away with foodstuffs and other valuables. The bandits later moved into a nearby Komo community in the same Local Government and kidnapped one person. “Later at about 10:00pm, gunmen reportedly invaded Danhonu II and Doka Mai- Jama’a, all in Millennium City, also in the same Chikun Local Government. “At Danhonu II, a banker and his 11 year daughter were abducted while a security guard was killed by the gunmen. “At Doka Jama’a, a few kilometres away from Danhono, a Village Head was kidnapped,” the source said. The source who spoke with our correspondent on condition of anonymity, added, “Gunmen in large numbers invaded Manini village in Kuriga district between 4:00am and 5:00am on Monday. “The kidnapped six persons from one family. The armed men broke into shops and carted away foodstuffs and other valuables into the bush. When they ended the operations at Manini, they left for a nearby village Komo where they abducted one person. The incidents were reported to the police in the area.” He said the bandits were yet to call the families of the victims to demand for ransom. Meanwhile, the Kaduna State Commissioner of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr. Samuel Aruwan in the company of security officials in the state had visited the scenes of the crime on Tuesday morning. The Commissioner also paid a condolence visit to the family of Emmanuel Yerima who was still being prepared for burial as at the time of the visit. The Kaduna State Police Command was yet to confirm the incidents. The Command’s Public Relations Officers, Mohammed Jalige said he was yet to receive briefs from the Divisional Police Officers in charge of the areas.