Data is life as Angela Elegbede found out recently. Having worked in the finance, construction, training and consulting sectors, she realised one cannot go really far with a deep grasp of data. The Madonna University law graduate, who works as a Business Development and Customer Excellence Manager in a fashion outfit, discovered she needed to understand data to maximise her skills. In 2019, a colleague introduced her to Enipro Data Academy, where she registered for a course in data. Her goal was to learn data gathering because modern systems and structures are built, designed and run by data. So, she applied herself fully. “We had nothing less than seven courses to learn ranging from Advanced Excel, Power Bi, Business Data Strategy, SQL and Python, to mention a few and we had to know and apply these skills in just three months and also submit assignments, presentations, test, exams and group projects to be defended by teams before a panel of data experts from around the world. It was intense! With a lot of mental pressure, good pressure of course,” she said of the classes. She said advanced excel stood her out among others. This, she claimed, was really an eye opener as the first class was mind blowing. Elegbede explained that excel is a gold mine with limitless facilities for one to do a whole lot of things and achieve. According to her:” I am still learning and discovering the Excel programme and everyday there is something new and different to learn while the second class that stood out for her was the Business Data Strategy class; the ability to use data gathered over a period of time to study and analyse industry and market trends that can ultimately guide business decision making was astounding.” Topping the class was not part of her agenda at the point of registration. A lot of her peers were arguably more brilliant but the encouragement and support she got made her stand out. Her next plan is to continue to learn, learn and learn as the exposure has awoken a passion and drive for learning which made her enroll for an online course with EDX of Harvard University on Technology Entrepreneurship that would further give her more opportunity to further upgrade her level Business Intelligence and Business Analysis skills.