 A non-governmental organisation, Whitefield Foundation, has distributed food items to some families in Sabo-Yaba, Lagos affected by the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and as part of activities to mark the 134th Anniversary of its major partner Coca Cola Foundation. This included garri, beans, noodles, eggs, milk, water, hand sanitiser and fruits Its Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Mrs. Funmi Johnson, said the foundation is targeting at least 10,000 families before the end of July. She said Lagos was their focus because it had been hard hit by the pandemic She said the event was held under the auspices of the Associate Volunteer Programme- CokeCARES, launched a Food Support Programme, with 134 vulnerable families living in a small urban community. She said with a grant from West Africa BU Leadership Team, the group surpassed its target as a total of 161 families received food supply for a week.  She said: ”Providing food relief to people, especially the elderly, widows, and families will go a long way to help more people stay home and stay safe. Proving food relief at this period is a responsibility we must all rise up to fulfill, not just the governing authorities. We appreciate the CocaCola staff for this novel support to mark the company’s anniversary. It is indeed remarkable and we hope more corporate bodies will follow in their footstep.” A beneficiary, Mr. Kayode, a 71-old retiree with young children, was praised the donor for the gesture.  “It has been a very difficult time for my family. I have even applied to the government and several outlets for assistance and food support during this period without any success. This pack will not only feed my family for a week but will last us for up to three weeks. Thank you to Whitefield Foundation and Coca Cola staff. Now I feel a sense of relief,” he said. Another beneficiary, simply identified as Kafayat, a petty trader and mother of two children, said: ”This is the biggest food relief pack I have ever received. It is very much more than I expected.”