Erica Nlewedim is an actress, model and beauty queen who participated in pageants like Most Beautiful Girl in Nigeria (MBGN). In this interview with Yetunde Oladeinde, she talks about her career, inspiration and more. How have you been staying safe during COVID-19 pandemic? I have been staying safe by keeping indoors and if I have to go for grocery shopping I use a mask and hand sanitizers religiously. Do you consider this a time to rest and take a break from work? I consider this a time to rest but more importantly to work on the things I have been postponing for a while. I am also using this time to do a lot of reading, self-improvement, workouts, and skin care. What message do you have for your fans? To my fans, I would say please be strong. I know times are hard, your life is only as good as your thoughts, but try to think positive and uplifting thoughts only. And if you need to make quick cash you can think of ways to solve problems. Like they say, little drops of water make an ocean. I’ll keep trying to help as many people as I can with foodstuffs; I love and appreciate you guys. Tell us about the movies you did recently? The most recent movie I starred in is called “The wig” produced by Mr. Darlington Abuda. It’s about a lawyer with self-esteem issues and the movie depicts her journey to developing self-confidence and it generally affects her career, beauty, and her love life! It’s a beautiful story and I can’t wait for you all to see it.  What inspires the things you do? What inspires the things I do is the impact it will have in my life in the nearest future and in the long run. If you could change something in your industry with the magic wand, what would it be? If I could change something about my industry it would be for our movies to have a much bigger budget. The truth of the matter is that, this is necessary so we can achieve the results the producers and directors really want. That way more people would pay to watch our movies and the sector will obviously move to the next level. Take us through your experience during the Most Beautiful Girl in Nigeria pageant? My experience with the MBGN pageant was life changing. I won the title of MBGN Miss Photogenic. It was an experience in which I learnt a lot and it is quite memorable. I learnt how to walk like a queen and how to carry myself with poise. At the pageant, I also met great people, a number of them are still my friends till today. I also got to visit Bayelsa State and Rivers State; I must say it was awesome. It is an experience I’m always grateful for. Tell us about the people you admire in the sector? I admire Mo Abudu, Genevieve Nnaji, Rita Dominic, Omotola, and Stephanie Okereke. They have had a very huge impact in Nollywood and I intend to be as influential and respected as they are in the industry. What are some of the changes that you would like to see in the sector? One of the changes I would like to see in the sector is bigger budget for our movies. That will surely help to bring out the best in the talents we have. You are also a model, what has been the experience? My experience as a model has been great; I started modeling officially at 17yrs of age. I was passionate about the sector and took steps to achieve this dream. First, I googled a list of commercial agencies in Lagos and I called a few of the numbers until I got signed to one. I got a few commercials and print jobs but my first big break was in 2014 when I got my first billboard and lead in a TV commercial. That was the turning point for me and since then I’ve been the face of a lot of brands. The list includes Access bank, Natures Gentle Touch, Zaron cosmetics, Glo, Daviva and more.  What is your definition of style? My definition of style is an expression of who I am or how I want to be perceived. What are the things that you won’t do in the name of fashion? I wouldn’t wear anything that makes me feel uncomfortable in the name of fashion. Tell us about your favorite holiday spot? My favorite holiday spot is Mykonos, the white buildings everywhere, the beaches are so beautiful and the people are very welcoming. What would you consider as the turning point in your career? My first cinema movie “Hire a woman” was released in 2019 and the response and recognition I have gotten from fans has been amazing, way more than I got the previous years. Who or what do you consider as the greatest influence in your career? My greatest influences have been the stars I have admired from childhood and I still admire. They are Charlize Theron, Angelina Jolie, Scarlett Johansson, Genevieve Nnaji, Beyoncé and Rihanna. If you had to advise young people in Nigeria today, what would you tell them? My advice to the youths of Nigeria is to hone in on their skills and aim to be experts at their crafts. They should always make sure that nothing of low quality comes from them. What type of books do you like to read? I like to read books on finance, Christian books and novels especially romance.