 RIVERS State Commissioner of Police, Joseph Mukan, has said he will not brook any unruliness or abuse of office by men and officers under his watch. Mukan took over the leadership of the state police command barely a month ago following the abrupt redeployment of Mustapha Dandaura. The new CP came at a time the command was said to be in dire need of direction, with residents grappling with kidnapping, armed robbery and the “worst eggs in the police”. Mukan said “will listen carefully to the residents” and that any allegation of unprofessional conduct against his men will be dutifully examined, and the guilty “brought to justice”. The human rights community has commended the CP for the arrest of eight members of Diobu vigilance group for the illegal arrest, detention and rape of a 21-year-old, and her brother, on 25 April. The arrest sent a message that no one is above the law. Mr. Azubuike Ihemeje, a lawyer, said,  “When policemen misbehave, we do not spare them; we also acknowlege the sterling performance of CP Mukan.” Ihemeje noted that proactive measures rolled out by the CP on his assumption of office helped to bring calm and stability to the state. “He may look easy going and very jovial in disposition, but don’t let that fool you; that is a lion on the field. “In less than one month, 160 criminal suspects apprehended; dozens of kidnap victims rescued without fatality; recovery of five stolen vehicles and counting, while 88 rounds of live ammunition were recovered from the criminals.” “These are aside the Nollywood actor, a Lebanese citizen, Mr. Balil Nosser who was kidnapped in Imo State but rescued in a forest at Ndashi community in Etche Local Government Area of Rivers State”. Nosser commended the Rivers police command for the operation, which also led to the recovery of a Toyota Venza Sport SUV, from the hoodlums. The CP also led the arrest of suspected murders of three students of University of Port Harcourt, who were kidnapped and later murdered last month. The excesses of the deadly Eagle Crack Squad have been toned down in the past weeks. A prominent leader in the state told our reporter that the withdrawal of policemen from the state’s notorious task forces has helped to scale back their excesses. 