In another time, Friday next week will witness parties in states of the federation. But, this is no time to pop the champagne, a sparkling wine the rich love to celebrate with. That day will mark the first anniversary of first-term governors in the current dispensation. One of them is Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu, who sits on the hot seat in Lagos. Like some of his colleagues, the Lagos governor has spent the last few months building bridges, housing estates, hospitals, roads and other infrastructure. He has also breathed life into the civil service and stepped up efforts to rev up the state’s finances. The BRT lane project, which he inherited from his predecessor, Akinwunmi Ambode, and others seem set for inauguration as part of activities to mark his first anniversary as the ‘Alausa landlord’. But, Sanwo-Olu’s first anniversary comes at a time when no one will judge him by how much infrastructure he has built or how much he has improved the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR). He is a leader in a time of war and will be remembered by how well the war is prosecuted. Till this day, ex-Governor Babatunde Fashola is judged by his handling of the Ebola virus crisis after it was ‘imported’ into the country by a Liberian. The state made history on February 20 when it was revealed that the country’s index case of the COVID-19 passed through the state on his way to the Ewekoro-Ogun State factory of cement giant Lafarge Plc. He was subsequently returned to Lagos where he was successfully treated and discharged. Since March, Sanwo-Olu has had to address Lagosians almost every day. Being a huge state in terms of population, policing the guidelines for the management of the pandemic has not come easy. Some religious leaders have also not helped matters. A few days before President Muhammadu Buhari announced the phased easing of the lockdown on Lagos, Ogun and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Apostle Johnson Suleman of the Omega Fire Ministry offered to heal COVID-19 patients. He passionately pleaded with governments for access to isolation centres. ”Please permit us to go and pray for COVID-19 patients. Allow us to go there, that is why there are men of God. “If you are really anointed to pray for the sick, this is the time because what is holding the world is sickness. So, we’re begging the government to permit us into isolation centres; that is the only way we can reduce this nonsense because it will improve every day. “There are people with the gift of healing. God has gifted them to pray for the sick. It is not fake, gimmick or arranged. It is there in them. Permit us so that we can prove there are prophets in Nigeria. “Permit us so that the ridicule and all that can reduce. We’re not telling you we can heal all of them, but by the time we are through with them, you’ll see a significant difference. If they are 20 before, at least 18 will be cleared because that is what God can do,” Apostle Suleman said. Other pastors such as Pastor Poju Oyemade do not share this kind of sentiment. They believe the issue is medical and science should be allowed to tackle it. Islamic clerics have also been known to cast doubts in the minds of the people and as a result of this Lagos and other parts of the country have seen an army of doubting Thomases, who tells us the virus is a scam. The other day some faithful gathered at a mosque in Agege, Lagos, and packed themselves like sardine fish in a tin. When government officials queried them for flouting the order on social distancing, they went irate. It took a combined team of security operatives to finally shut down the mosque. The role of religious leaders in nipping the virus in the bud is not lost on Sanwo-Olu. At the weekend, he had a virtual meeting with them. The Grand Chief Imam of Lagos, Sheik Suleiman Abu-Nolla, Dr. Abdulrahman Ahmad (Chief Missioner, Ansar-Ud-Deen), Pastor W.F. Kumuyi (Deeper Christian Life Ministry), Pastor Joseph Obayemi (RCCG) Dr. D.K. Olukoya (MFM), Rev. Mercy Ezekiel (CPM) and other leaders in the five Christian Bloc and CAN Executives participated in the meeting. The pandemic, the governor told the religious leaders, is now at the community transmission stage. He pleaded with them to obey the “0-congregation” stance of government for religious worship centres. The community stage transmission, which the governor spoke about, is festooned by disobedience. Many of us have behaved as though we have signed a multilateral pact to support community spread. We were joyous to be let out of the jails that our homes looked like for the six weeks we were locked in. Before 6 a.m. of the Monday that the lockdown was lifted, the Third Mainland Bridge must have noticed something its body was no longer used to. For six weeks, the Bridge must have wondered what was happening; it certainly must have wondered too what changed again that Monday when row and row of cars queued on it struggling to find their way to Lagos Island, Victoria Island and Lekki Peninsula. The environment, too, must have wondered what was going on. For six weeks, fumes from exhaust were on break; the air smelt fresh. Then from that Monday, everywhere became choked once more. Our streets, if they have eyes, must have noticed strange creatures parading left, right and centre. Many of them look like ace Afrobeat musician Lagbaja. Their masks are from different tailors and the ways they wear them range from the ridiculous to the incredible. Clearly, many of the mask and the ways they are worn cannot protect us against the Coronavirus, the enemy that kept us home for six weeks. With these strange-looking masks, we have been visiting banks, offices, pubs, restaurants and what have you. It is good we are wearing masks; though many of what we wear as masks are deceitful. Social distancing is one guideline we have found difficult to practise. From buses to banks to our streets and others, we crowd one another and rely on our ridiculous masks to save us from being infected. Danfo drivers ordered by governments to carry only 60 per cent of their buses’ capacity are not obeying the law. Keke NAPEP drivers, who are obeying the social distancing rule, are charging more to ensure there are no losses, which mean people who were either not paid April salaries or had their salaries slashed have to pay more to get to work. Despite the closure of boundaries, an open truck with cows and 40 human-beings was intercepted recently trying to enter Lagos from Zamfara State. Of course, no social distancing or any hygiene routine was observed by these men who appear to believe ‘babu Corona’ and are intent on exercising their rights to kill themselves. Acts like this will only work against Sanwo-Olu’s efforts to get Lagos back on its foot. Returning my dear state to normalcy depends on you and me. It does not rest on Sanwo-Olu. If we comply with the guidelines, the phased unlocking will happen soon. If we behave badly by ignoring the rules, it will take longer and we will be the ones to suffer for it. Businesses will continue to lose money and unable to meet their financial obligations to employees. It is until we are ready to fully conform to the government’s guidelines that we can begin to see a clear sign of when Lagos will be our Lagos again. Lagosians should learn from the news that 30 people from a factory in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, tested positive to COVID-19. The government cannot be present in all factories to ensure compliance. We must take ownership of the management of the pandemic. We cannot afford the chaos the virus plunged New York, a city which has so much in common with Lagos. As the General leading the Lagos battlefield, Sanwo-Olu has led a good fight against the pandemic. In a war like this, the General needs 100 per cent loyalty. A simple act of disloyalty in the form of disobeying the guidelines will work against winning this battle on time and prolong our woes but I trust in the ability of the governor to ensure we do not obliterate his record for which posterity will judge him.