For any good Muslim, coming out of Ramadan is like coming out of Hajj fresh. Both are spiritual cleansers and erasers of sins. Whoever passes through Ramadan or Hajj with genuine intention and abides by their rules scrupulously is sure to become like a new born baby devoid of sins. If anything should be called a clean slate (Tabularasa), here on earth, it is either Ramadan or Hajj. The one is open to all. The other is limited to a few according to the condition by which it is to be performed. Both Ramadan and Hajj constitute the rarest opportunity for living Muslims to renew their covenant with Allah on an annual basis. Through Ramadan, we came to know about Tarawih and the reinvigoration it entails; we came to know about Sahur and the discipline it instils in obedient Muslims; we came to know about Iftar and the relief it brings to fasting Muslims; we came to know about I’tikaf and the spirituality it encourages in Muslims; we came to know about Laylatul Qadr and the great mercy it bestows on mankind; we came to know about Zakatul Fitr and the spirit of kindness it accentuates and finally we came to know about Eidul Fitr and the happiness it disseminates among believers. Through Hajj, we came to know about the very first house on earth which is called Ka’bah; we came to know about the circular nature of the world which Tawaf represents; we came to know about the necessity of endurance in life which Sa’y connotes; we came to know about the great assembly of the Final Day which Arafat exemplifies; we came to know bout the damnable character of Satan which the throwing of pebbles at the Jamrat symbolizes; we came to know about perseverance of Prophet Muhammad (SAW) which the visit of pilgrims to Madinah represents and the everlasting universality of Islam which the meeting of races in the Holy Land confirms. Yet, without the Qur’an, we would not have known Ramadan and Hajj. Neither would we have known Islam and its three other pillars. This confirms that Qur’an is the main constitution of this life and the life hereafter. With the last two pillars of Islam so heavily loaded with spiritual well being and jointly forming an estuary of fortune for the other three pillars it may be concluded that the traces of life hereafter are vividly clear in this very life on earth. Thus, we thank the Almighty Allah for granting us opportunity to sail through another Ramadan without scratch. 