 From Lagos to Abuja, and Abuja to Imo and all over the federation, some well-meaning Nigerians went out of their way to reach out to the lowly in the society during the coronavirus lockdown. Their gestures may have not gone unnoticed. While the Federal Government was busy identifying the poorest of the poor, this set of Nigerians were going about putting smiles on the faces of people who deserved to be helped without fanfare. Worthy of mention is the efforts of the likes of Cosmos Madu, Prince Ephraim Iwuh, Chief Mike Ezeji, Louis Ukegbu and his younger brother, Lawrence, who reached out to poor Nigerians. They provided palliatives to the people of Umnokwu autonomous community in Aboh Mbaise Local Government Area of Imo State. In the same manner, Toe Ekechi from Imerienwe in Ngor Okpala Local Government Area equally put smiles on the faces of 31 journalists in Imo State amid the biting COVID-19 lockdown.  Alhaja Safirah Abebi Animashaun took it upon herself to feed at least 120 vulnerable Nigerians daily without assistance at the initial stage. But as she sustained the gesture, close residents of her street in Cassette area of Aguda, Surulere, joined forces with her to lift the souls of the poor during the lockdown. On what informed her decision to embark on the charity work, she said: “Seeing many people wallowing in abject poverty with no food to eat and I can’t do anything to help them is not in my blood. You cannot see people hungry and pass them by. I was not brought up that way.” The case of Oretola Olamiju residing at Jakande Estate, Isolo is as interesting as what motivated him to extend his milk of human kindness to the needy. He said: “One of the days during the lockdown, I had a breakfast conversation with my daughter and she was like ‘I don’t want this and I don’t want that for breakfast.’ And I was like why is this girl feeling so privileged, does she realise how many kids out there who don’t have food let alone choosing what to eat? I decided to find a way to reach out to children and some families within my neighbourhoods.” Olamiju, a photographer, began with N10, 000 after soliciting assistance from friends without getting a response. With the help of his son and daughter, they bought as much items as the funds could provide them.  Each pack contained one derica of beans, four packs of noodles, three eggs and one spaghetti. Though a former Commonwealth boxing champion, Peter Oboh comes across as a regular guy in the neighbourhood, his large heart is not something that can be glossed over. Now a preacher, Oboh’s first distribution of foodstuff and face masks to the needy during the lockdown in Olodi-Apapa and Ajegunle areas of Lagos began on Easter Sunday. Using the Comfort Hotel, Oboh reached out to over 200 people, especially women and children. When he saw the many hungry faces, he decided to make it a regular feature as he believes that hunger is spreading like wildfire during the lockdown. Since then, the former British Light-Heavyweight boxing champion has been spending his hard-earned money distributing such items as rice, yams, spaghetti and noodles, among others. In line with its area of apostolate in providing help to families and individuals in their communities, members of Yaba Particular Council (YPC) which is the Yaba Deanery of the Society of Saint Vincent De Paul intensified their mandate in the Coronavirus lockdown in Lagos. The beneficiaries got foodstuff such as rice, beans, power oil, sachet tomato, sweet potato, maggi, crates of egg, salt, yam, noodles, sachet milk, sachet milo, garri, bread and cash grants, among others. The palliatives shared also included families within the location of each church regardless of religion, race or creed. In Emeabiam, in Owerri West Local Government Area of Imo State, Chief Ezennia Nwalozie, a U.S-based businessman provided the various communities that made up Emeabiam with 20 bags of rice among other food items that included wash hand basin and sanitisers to all the public places in the area. From his small church in Alagbado, Pastor Folorunsho Emmanuel Bamiduro is doing great with his faith-based non-governmental organisation (NGO): Bamiduro Life Care Foundation. From 2001 when he began, FE Bamiduro as he is fondly called has not relented in his mission of taking care of the needy, the sick, children and the aged. During the lockdowns, Bamiduro and his team supplied food items to the sick and the aged in Ikare Akoko in Ondo State. And he funds the project alone. Molabat Restaurant is situated somewhere in Isolo, owned by Mrs. Lara and they have been feeding up to 700 children and adults since the lockdown and even after lifting the lockdown. Its manager, Mr. Tunde Taiwo, said the situation of the economy has forced many children to go hungry, hence the need to feed as many as they can. “We were feeding people even before the lockdown, but the lockdown made the number of people we feed to increase. Daily we see children roam around the streets looking for what to eat. Since we sell food, we decided to feed them with pap and moimoi and sometimes give out foodstuff if the pap and moimoi is not enough to go round.”