 TODAY’s pandemic is redefining, if for now, how it is to be rich and poor. To be rich is not to flaunt, but to help. It is to spend all the cost of a business class ticket to buy a meal for over six thousand people. For the first time in history, billionaires clap as one beyond their clans. It is also a time to beg with impunity. The poor are bold and don’t bow with their bowls. They jettison a loaf of bread and toss it like an Arsenal player into the air. We also have the episodes of genuine destitution where long lines of the city’s lower class buzz for a bag of rice and garri. We are witnessing a moral moment in our country, and it is easy to interrogate the rich as a cynical or afraid, or full of empathy. The rich must be full of introspection today. Why did this sort of good feeling not flow out pre-Covid? Why now? If the pandemic were not raging, the planes would be revving above us, their contrails pointing to England or France or the United States. Money burning in those plumes of smoke, dollars, pounds and Euros. They would be travelling for deals, to make more of the millions or billions. When they were not making deals, they hunt for parties, the weddings, the birthdays, or funeral, or a mere flamboyance for a fellow who bought a new mansion, had a new baby or new contract. Some of them would take place in a small town in Monaco, or Italy, or Spain, and everyone who wanted to be regarded as somebody would travel first class or business class, and land in the town. The services would take place in a local church that was never half-full for a decade until the Nigerians came. Or a party in which some exotic-looking fashion, gaudy and showy, stuns locals who take pictures, or merely gawp. The head-ties of the women, the men without a tie but shoulders and torsos swathed in colour and fine material. The shoes and scents are local, but above the onlookers leagues from whose factories they are spun. The visitors know not the hosts. The hosts know not the visitors. The visitors are vain and happy. The hosts are paid and marvel. Everyone wants to be in the picture, posing with false grandeur. No local reporters or newshounds come or care. The ones that care are not aware or even invited until a few days later. Or in this internet age, a few hours later, or even minutes later. They are here in the society circuit of the newspapers like this one, or television. All the visitors need to do is record the matter for the world to see. We see their façade of wealth and dignity, their smiles of hauteur. They have good camera to take still and moving pictures. They transfer the moments to editors and producers. The editors publish. It has cost all of them, probably 50 people, about a million dollars to get that done. It probably would cost a fraction to do the same in Ikoyi. But better to tell the world that my daughter’s wedding reception or my 50th birthday took place in Dubai or south of France, than in miserly place like home. Even at that, what of the ones that happen at home?  We have big parties. The invitation cards of a rich man’s party are enough to fund the whole of a carpenter’s son’s graduation party. We have the general invite, and then we have access cards. We have all of these because we have to classify those we love. We love you less so you don’t have access to the holy of holies. Some of the money spent is not theirs. Some of them are loans, or money diverted from contracts that they will not perform, but rig so they can get new ones. So when they go to the hovel of the poor, and they donate bags of rice, or beans, or dole out N1,000 each to a specified number of people in Tudun Wada or Ajegunle, we wonder whether to say thank you, or to say, well, this is our money that the almighty Covid-19 has stopped you from spending. It is also known that the rich is trapped among the poor. They cannot run if they tried. If the poor revolt, the rich cannot jet out to London, nor their children who are around. They cannot do much but to remain here. This may be a cynical view. This may be a point of view that demonises the rich. Some of them, after all, worked for their money. It may not be a fair system. As Thomas Hobbes has argued in His Leviathan, we are all born equal into a jungle of power. Don’t begrudge the other’s success because we did not win. Rousseau said “man is born free but everywhere he finds himself in chains.” The poor will argue that the French philosopher was foolish. Is the man born with a million dollars from his father as free as the man born in a ghetto? One is freer than the other. But, says the counter, some ghetto-born have overtaken the rich. It is that Ghetto-born exception that preserves the myth of equality. We have always had in capitalist societies of two halves as Plato noted in his The Republic. One for the rich and other one for the poor. The poor will always be with us. But it is the duty of the society to remember that the poor make the rich. But the rich maim them in the process. What we are probably seeing is that the Pandemic has brought out the angels in the rich. Plagues are often more ruthless than wars. They recognize neither class. They ravage without discrimination. They are the best humblers. They level the revelers and haves,  and hack down the other half, the have-nots. Government sometimes helps to preserve the poor with their programmes. For instance, the almajiri schools. This essayist had some flak from readers over my jibe at those schools. They praise President Goodluck Jonathan for building such schools. I described them, as I have done in the past, as tokenist. It preserves their status rather than eliminate it. But if you integrate them into public schools, it forces you to improve the schools, and an almajiri graduate does not become a stigma. He is as qualified as any other. The issue of alienation is at the core of this season of donations. We hope that it is a show of empathy, not of cynical dismissal. It is not a show of pity, or fear, but of love. Aristotle has shown that human drama is about pity and fear. In this case, the rich show pity because they fear backlash. We hope it is not the contempt of the Lazarus of crumbs and the rich man of lavish luxury. Paul said he knows how to abound and abase.” Jesus said if you do good to the poor, you do it to Him. Our rich are however more clever than the prince Prospero of Adgar Allan Poe’s story, The Masque of the Red Death. The prince moves his friends and family away from town to a “safe sanctuary of leisure” while the plague decimates the people. He does not escape when the red death comes.    