 AFTER the coronavirus, otherwise known as COVID-19, had landed in Nigeria through airplane travellers from Europe and the United States, the government began contact tracing, testing, and treating infected persons. The general public was advised to wear face masks; wash hands with soap under flowing water or  rub hands with alcohol-based sanitiser; maintain physical distance from other persons; and avoid crowds. Nigerians have reacted differently to the COVID-19 pandemic, which has infected over 3.6 million and killed over 253,000 people across the globe. The reactions vary from  ignorance, indifference, and denial to anxiety, worry, and confusion. At the same time, there are also those who understand the lethality of the coronavirus, and are, therefore, very cautious. Unfortunately, the latter group is in the minority in Nigeria. Yet, this is the group that the government typically speaks to on television and in print. The reactions to the coronavirus pandemic in the country reflect two extremes, indicating variations in levels of education, exposure, and historical knowledge. At one extreme are those Nigerians who simply have no idea whatsoever what coronavirus is or means or simply deny its existence. They include illiterates, artisans, and various categories of daily paid wage earners. I got to know their views through telephone conversations with contacts in Ondo state, especially Idanre, my hometown, and Akure, the state capital, where I have been in self isolation since mid-March. Most of the informants were people I grew up with and others who had worked for me or my wife on one project or the other in the last eight years. I found the level of incredulity among many of them intolerable. Nothing like coronavirus, many of them claimed with unfounded certainty. Some of them argued that the Federal Government manufactured the disease to get loans and donations from big businesses and that states were only providing figures of infected persons to obtain their own share of the money. There are some among them who thought it was only a disease associated with rich and powerful people since no one contracted it in their neighbourhood and the deaths they heard about were those of well-to-do people. Clearly, some of their views were molded by their knowledge of rampant corruption in the country. The people’s incredulity was further intensified by fake news, conspiracy theories, and the government’s policy shifts, occasioned by new knowledge of the pandemic and its steady spread across the country. A large chunk of the incredulous group consists of people officially designated as poor. Recent figures released by the Federal Bureau of Statistics indicate that 82.9 million Nigerians belong to this group. They live on about N138,000 a year, which translates to about N11,500 a month, that is, less than 400 Naira a day. Unfortunately, the longer the lockdown went on, the more hungry and uncomfortable this group became. This is also true of daily paid workers whose resistance to the government’s containment measures got intensified by hunger. The policies developed by various countries to curb and contain the pandemic have had debilitating effects on every kind of economic activity imaginable with the rare exception of those involved in the production of medical supplies. True, an economic meltdown of global proportions is in the making, the prospect for Nigeria is particularly dire. A country that has been struggling to survive largely on loans long before COVID-19 has had to borrow more in order to meet the costs of containment and treatment of the disease. Yet, the price of oil, Nigeria’s major source of income, has been slashed in half! The various emergency measures, including curfews and lockdowns, established by various governments, have led to drastically reduced demand for oil and its products, leaving oil producing countries with over-supply. Unfortunately, millions of Nigerians have no idea about the global economic situation and how it affects them. They are consumed in their own world of daily living, of waking up, finding something to do or someone to beg to provide food for the day. Just picture the almajiris in the North with begging bowls in hand. Unfortunately, they are now among the major carriers of the coronavirus as they move or are moved across Northern states. It is against the above backgrounds that we must assess the government’s COVID-19 policies. Although the government did well in initially restricting incoming flights to Lagos and Abuja, international borders should have been closed even at that time. The initial restriction of the lockdown to Lagos, Ogun and the Federal Capital Territory, where infections were initially detected, was also a grave error. The President should have secured the cooperation of all state governors to apply the lockdown nation-wide and close inter-state borders. All incoming arrivals from overseas should have been quarantined and their movement restricted within Lagos and Abuja for at least 14 days. Those initial errors reflect the government’s poor understanding of the patterns of spread in Asia and Europe, where lockdowns were applied nationwide. Today, the nation is suffering from the pains of those initial oversights as the virus spreads across the nation. This is particularly true of the North, where Northern governors were initially resistant to taking necessary mitigation measures. The warning editorial by The Punch newspapers on April 23, 2020, has turned out to be prophetic: “Severe danger lies ahead, … particularly with the stance of the Northern Governors’ Forum … (which) … decided that it would not prescribe a lockdown of the region … That decision is wrong and shows that these governors are not handling the pandemic scientifically”. A much greater danger lies ahead for the entire nation as the Federal Government lifted the lockdown on Lagos, Ogun, and the FCT on Monday, May 4, 2020. As the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 noted on Monday, the level of compliance with safety measures to ward off infection has been extremely low. It may appear too early to assess the government’s action. But one thing is clear: In countries, such as Germany, Ghana, and Hong Kong, where lockdowns were lifted, the second spike has been devastating. We must expect an even greater spike, because we lifted the lockdown in the highly infected areas, even as the infection rates were going up.  