The National President, Association of Nigeria Licenced Customs Agents (ANLCA), Tony Nwabunike, has described maritime workers as the strength of the industry. This was contained in his message to the President- General of the Maritime Workers Union (MWUN), on the Workers Day at the weekend. Nwabunike acknowledged the union’s contributions to the sector and the economy, describing it as immense”. “Today, we join to celebrate workers all over the world, particularly our comrades in the maritime industry. We celebrate the maritime worker sincerely, because we owe them more than they are paid and we know that without them a maritime nation, like ours, will never be existing let alone grow. “We, in the association of Nigeria Licenced Customs Agents (ANLCA), see the Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria (MWUN) and other workers as our formidable partners. We remember your efforts not only at protecting workers rights, but also at championing the interest of the majority of Nigerians.’’ The President-General continued: “Indeed, your acts of selflessness are second to none and has not gone unnoticed as we reminicise on the benefits of your labour to our common good. “We have on record the many interventions you have made to suggest ideas and policies redirection for the government, in many instances without promoting industrial disharmony. “We celebrate your contributions because without you our desires for greater economy, flourishing commerce, improved social life would have remained a mirage. “ANLCA’s partnership with you and the entire labour movements in the maritime industry will remain evergreen putting the interest of majority first and being truthful, fair and dedicated “Indeed, you are a vital human element to our national economic life. There is dignity in what you are doing for us, we know it even though we don’t say it out everyday.’’ He noted that the workers are the strength, workforce,  and their representatives on the frontliners of keeping the ports afloat during the  lockdown caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.