 The Nigeria Computer Society (NCS) has advised the private and public sectors to leverage technology to mitigate the effects of COVID-19. It urged government to put the right infrastructure in place to tap from the sector. Its President, Prof. Adesina Sodiya, argued that the development has exposed the Information Technology (IT)-based platforms, such as teleworking (e-working), telecommuting, telemedicine, e-learning and crowdsourcing. He spoke against the backdrop of COVID-19 pandemic, adding that during this critical period when national and international markets were on lockdown, important government operations should not be abandoned. According to him, many business operations have been forced to move online as they have realised the immense benefits of teleworking, telecommuting, telemedicine, e-learning and crowdsourcing, among others. Sodiya said the society had been pushing for improved adoption of technology and electronic services over the years. “In this critical period, it is believed that some basic and essential government and business operations must not be completely stalled. Already, some corporate business activities are being run online.  The development has opened our eyes to Information Technology-based platforms such as teleworking (e-working), telecommuting, telemedicine,  e-learning and crowdsourcing. “The society wish to further encourage federal, state, local governments, business organisations, schools and institutions to fully leverage ICT as a remedy to palliate the effect of COVID-19 on social, environmental, education, health and economic activities,” Sodiya said. The NCS president emphasised the need for the government to invest in adequate infrastructure for the development and adoption of technology across the three tiers of the government. He expressed the readiness of the society to assist the government in the research, development, deployment and implementation of digital transformation. “The impact of COVID-19 has really exposed some of Nigeria’s inadequacies in all facets of our daily living. However, this country is blessed with talented and skilful professionals.  Nigeria Computer Society, the umbrella body of all IT professionals and practitioners, is fully ready and ever prepared to assist in the research, development, deployment and sustainability of the digital transformation.” He expressed regret that the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) which was supposed to provide data for the distribution of stimulus package to Nigerians during the lockdown had been unable to do so due to inadequate infrastructure. Sodiya said: “In this lockdown period, distribution of stimulus packages to the citizenry would have been seamless if adequate infrastructure had been put in place to propel NIMC to rise to its responsibility of having an integrated national database. This is just one example out of many. “However, organisations and governments must then improve their ICT infrastructure capacity and provide the enabling environment for requite skills acquisition and development for seamless adoption of the IT. “We need to stop playing lip service to our policies. There must be end-to-end technological development/deployment at national, state and local government levels.’’ He pledged the commitment of the society to the full integration of the IT in all facets of its daily activities and encouraged other stakeholders to collaborate with it to achieve digital transformation in the country.