 AMIR. Hassan. These two names will stay glued to my memory for a long time to come. Hassan, to me, represents Nigeria. Amir stands for you and me and the ways we have wronged our dear country. Since March, the Coronavirus pandemic has kept us at home the way it has forced the rest of the world to take desperate measures. In times past, our streets will be jammed; our markets will be occupied by legs, arms and bodies; and this Ramadan season, mosques would be busier. Saudi would be preparing to receive pilgrims for umrah. But Coronavirus has humbled us all. It has also shown how much injustice we have done and doing to our nation and, by extension, ourselves. Amir and Hassan are brothers in Khaled Hosseini’s well-written novel ‘The Kite Runner’. Amir, until death took Hassan, thought his step-brother was his ‘servant’. All his life, Hassan never knew the man he called father was not his father. It never occurred to him that the one he saw as master, and also served his son, was actually his father. Amir’s father had illicit sex with Hassan’s mother and he was born a crime and shame and must be kept a secret. Somehow Amir’s father was always treating Hassan well and he felt envious. He also felt his father was putting him under too much pressure because of Hassan; the step-brother became marked and Amir lied against Hassan to get him out of their mansion. Like Amir treated Hassan, the led and the leadership of Nigeria have treated Nigeria unfairly, and we are still treating it unfairly. My prayer is that we do not jointly kill it before its time. This injustice sticks out like a sore thumb in the health sector. The Coronavirus has drawn attention the poor state of our medical facilities. Over the years, we have paid lip service to the sector, which in saner climes is given top priority. From primary to secondary and tertiary health institutions, there is none that we have gotten right. People die avoidable deaths. Malaria, fever and typhoid kill people in thousands annually. Every year, Lassa fever visits and kills us in large numbers. As you read this, Lassa fever is still out sending people to an untimely death. The Coronavirus pandemic has only overshadowed it, but the figures are scary. It has killed people in their hundreds but, unlike Coronavirus, Lassa fever is a local champion and its victims are the poor — people who most likely never went abroad. Eking out a decent living was not an easy task for them. COVID-19, on the other hand, has affected the high and the mighty. It took the big shot to even import it into the country. The poor can only get it through community spread. At every given opportunity, the United Nations (UN) has pleaded that a substantial part of our budget be devoted to the health sector. Year in, year out, we pretend to have bought into this advocacy, but you only need to see our budget for health to know that we are not serious people. In the face of poor funding, our tertiary institutions, such as the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan, — which used to be the envy of similar institutions in the West in the 60s and early 70s — are now mere consulting rooms. If you know UCH in its early years, you will weep for what is now called the UCH. It is not only UCH that needs restoration; other tertiary institutions in the country are also glorified general hospitals. They are supposed to be centres of research but how much research can go on when even basic infrastructures are not available? In the absence of a working health sector, the rich jump abroad when they have a headache; they smuggle their kids overseas when their stomachs rumble; and their wives are on regular check-up list of top-notch hospitals in the West. Even India makes a kill from our rich’s appetite for health tourism. With the Coronavirus pandemic overwhelming even the West, everyone is forced to stay at home and attend to their ill-health. I am emphasizing health because of the time we are, but almost every facet of our lives have faced neglect. Is it education? You only need to look at the list of top 100 universities in the world to understand the level of decay in our education sector. Like I pointed out earlier, the fault is not only with our leaders; we, their subjects, have also fallen short of glory. Perhaps the best way to know how terrible we can be as a people is our attitude to paying tax and utility bills. We expect the government to fix our roads and do so many things but we look for all avenues to avoid paying tax. Many of us want electricity and water, but we are ever creative in fashioning ways to avoid paying for these services. We always hide under the fact that our government is irresponsible to justify our irresponsibility. Two wrongs do not make a right. I am the first to admit that directors of our electricity distribution companies deserve strokes of the cane for epileptic supply, for over-billing, for refusal to metre their consumers and for other infractions, but there are people who, despite enjoying supply, still do not want to pay or simply engage in illegal connection. Government agencies are also guilty of not paying for services. Military and police barracks are guilty of this. Again, I believe when every consumer is metered, there will be no room for this. If you do not prepay for the service by buying recharge cards, the service automatically eludes you. Like Amir, whose peace was shattered because of the injustice to Hassan, we all cannot truly have a country of our choice if we continue to shy away from our responsibility. Our leaders too must play their roles and only then can we have the Nigeria of our dream. All hands must be on deck. As a form of restitution, Amir had to leave the comfort of his new life in the United States, and dined with the devil in the Taliban-controlled Afghanistan for the custody of Hassan’s son. He wanted to be good again and the only way to be good again was to give his late step-brother’s son a new lease of life free of abuse from a rapist and cradle snatcher masquerading as a Jihadist. This era has provided us with the golden opportunity for redemption. Our leaders must seek redemption by shunning corruption and spending our financial might only on noble and worthy causes. On our part as the led, we should also play our role as good citizens. If one part plays its role and the other does not, things will remain apart and there is absolutely no way the centre can hold. The time for the Amir in us all to right the wrongs we have done to Hassan— Nigeria— is now. Yes, now! 