Dear Honorable Minister of Education, with a high sense of humility, I really commend your efforts towards the development of education in our country. Three weeks ago, you directed 237 vice-chancellors, rectors and provosts of Nigerian higher institutions nationwide to resume the session through virtual learning amid the spread of COVID-19. This, according to you, would enable students continue their studies through digital devices while at home. Much as I see this idea as awesome, my question is: “Are we good to go with such system in Nigeria?” Although you have pledged that the Federal Government will do its best to resolve the labour crisis with the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), whose members are on strike; but will this have an effect on us? What if ASUU refuses to backpedal? You should also not forget that not all lecturers are social media handlers. Many are only good in face-to-face interactions. In the end, it is the students that suffer most if some of those lecturers fail to live up to expectation. You also said the vice chancellors of private universities have expressed readiness to kick start the idea immediately, claiming to have top grade virtual learning system. However, what about the government owned institutions? Sir, it may not be out of place for me to advise that as someone who superintends the Ministry of Education today, you need to go some steps further to understand the level of decadence in the public education system. Most worrisome is the perennial underfunding of the system by successive administrations, a development that has further dragged our education sector behind. If we are not to deceive ourselves, we should all accept the stark reality that Nigeria as a country, is not technologically advanced enough to embrace online education, particularly government-owned tertiary institutions. Public institutions have an army of intelligent students many who still find it hard to pay their tuition, especially when partial payment is not accepted. On the other hand, private institutions will have little or no challenge migrating onto virtual environment. They have enough students from rich backgrounds whose parents may not shed a drop of sweat to deploy handsome sums as tuitions for their wards. As a student in Nigeria, I see the e-learning as a good alternative as it will further improve our education system. While your aim is to help Nigerian students continue learning while observing the lockdown, no one can specifically say how long this lockdown would last. To cap it all, many students in public schools will suffer if the virtual learning system is eventually implemented because all hands are not equal. Technologically, Nigeria is still bereft of prerequisite infrastructure that will enhance virtual learning. I don’t think our schools here can flex muscles with their contemporaries in other climes; no thanks to government that have failed to do the needful despite repeated agitations by ASUU to revitalise public institutions. For instance, inconsistent power supply will make students miss many online classes while at home, while many others may yet forget specific time certain lectures are to hold as the stay-at-home directive drags on. Let us not also forget that it might take some times for students who for years have been used to the traditional face-to-face method, to start adjusting to the online alternative, no thanks to the COVID-19 pandemic that suddenly forced the country to adopt such initiate. Now, our parents’ sources of income have almost dried off because of the lockdown.Their wards who depend on their support to buy data, tabs, laptops, among others, may be the biggest victims in this trying times. Another disadvantage is that not every student of higher institutions can afford android phones and tablets, and other communication gadgets. Many students still use small phones; some don’t have at all. Some students reside in rural areas where issues of electricity and network services are still a daydream. These crops of students will be worst hit when this system finally begins. For e-learning to be achievable, we need stable electricity. Second, we need a very strong and reliable internet network system with modest charges. This will enable students access the platforms of their various schools unhindered.To make this work, I suggest our government should liaise with the existing communication outfits to provide free services for students.Thirdly, since it is virtual learning programme, the curriculum of all the institutions should be harmonised to make it easy for students to learn Lastly, there should be provisions for students who can’t afford to buy android phones and tablets, even if they would have to pay later. There are a good number of online retail shops that the government can liaise with across the states for door-to-door distributions of the gadgets.