 The organised labour in Ekiti State has called on Governor Kayode Fayemi to commence payment of new hazard allowance to health workers to serve as morale booster for them to work during any emergency situation like coronavirus scourge. The labour unions, comprising Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC), Trade Union Congress (TUC) and Public service Joint Negotiating Council (JNC), said the implementation of the new allowance became imperative considering the inherent threat posed by Covid 19 to health personnel globally. The trade unions spoke in a statement in Ado Ekiti on Thursday jointly signed by the Secretaries of NLC , Comrades Eunice Akinyemi, TUC , Lawrence Kuloogun and JNC, Gbenga Olowoyo, respectively . They said: “The organized Labour wishes to bring to the attention of His Excellency to the outstanding financial benefits for workers who have received their promotion letters from 2015, 2016, 2017,2018 and 2019 are yet to be effected, this has rendered the promotions ineffective and unaddressed. “The conviction of the organized Labour is that our amiable Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi should consider the workers predicament on this outstanding promotion and approve for implementation so as to serve as palliative to the entire deserving workers. “It is not also unknown to His Excellency the request for special hazard allowance for health workers which is yet to be paid most especially as a result of this devastating COVID 19 phenomenal”. The labour unions appealed to Fayemi to inject more funds to the Car and Housing Loans Scheme for workers, so that considerable higher number of applicants can benefit. The organized labour urged the governor to expedite action on the completion and implementation of the N30,000 minimum wage across board , which would have taken effect, but for COVID 19 outbreak. “The outstanding 3 months salaries for workers and two months of deductions for state workers and six months outstanding salaries and two months deductions for Local Government workers cannot be underestimated and should be at the front burner”. The labour commended the state government for being part of the 24 states that will benefit from the N43 billion funds released for performance based grant under the transparency, accountability and sustainability (SFTAS) programme for results. “The State Government is commended for achieving this feat by meeting up with the criteria set out by the World Bank which include; openness and citizen engagement in the budget process; improved cash management and reduced revenue leakages through the implementation of state Treasury Single Account (TSA); strengthened Internally Generated Revenue (IGR); Biometric Registration Number (BVN) used to reduce payroll fraud. “We are ready to put forward the economic blueprint that will assist the state government to improve and shore up the Internally Generated Revenue as part of its readiness to partner with the state government towards achieving unparalleled socio-economic and infrastructural development. “We assure you of our sincere commitment for industrial peace and robust partnership that will motivate the entire workforce for improved productivity, job efficiency and effectiveness.”