Undoubtedly world leaders are totally distracted from the business of governance by the ascendancy, morbidity and high fatality rate of the present global pandemic. For  some of these leaders , presidents and governors, Speakers   and legislators , it has been a cruelly unforeseen tragedy  that has not allowed them to deliver on the lofty dreams and  programmes they envisaged to deliver  politically whenever  they  got  power,   and   the pandemic  has  been  a real  wet  blanket  and  hindrance  that has not allowed them to  leave for  now, a solid  legacy  in terms  of positive performance . For some however the pandemic is  a welcome distraction since  they never had any serious salutary  objectives on getting to power to improve society, but  to  loot the treasury as it were   and   make enough money to remain ever  relevant in the   power   structure,   even   well  after leaving office. I   hereby challenge world and local leaders to find their level in this categorization. I  urge   this    in the   words  of that    NTA political  documentary   that focused on the  late  General Sanni  Abacha, Nigeria’s foremost   looter   succeeding himself as civilian  leader titled  ‘ Who  the Cap Fits ‘   before   death  intervened to scuttle  that self succession   bid  and metamorphosis  from a  military leader to a  civilian  president of Nigeria . I repeat again that    world leaders are distracted from the business of government  and the world is being led by the nose by the statistics from  the prestigious John Hopkins University that even the Chinese admit  is the authentic authority on the mortality and morbidity   rate   of the global  pandemic My   objective today   however is to call to order the obsession of world leaders with the morbidity of the pandemic. I also   want to caution as well on   the hubris of science and medicine, especially Western Medicine in glorifying the invincibility of the pandemic while snubbing herbal, non herbal and    non Western proposals as panacea to the pandemic. Indeed the prevailing , global   technical  attitude of scientists and  Health  regulatory institutions and bodies that a vaccine would take ages to invent and the procedures have to be followed   meticulously showed a marked disposition to  unnecessarily   prolong human suffering and deaths,  based on inhuman technicalities which can only be described as callous ,  given the  urgent and  emergency situation of curing the pandemic by all  means available at the moment. An African proverb says it does not matter who killed the snake as long as it is dead. Have  these medical  and scientific  dons and  giants never heard this before? Has nobody told them that desperate diseases require desperate  cure? Of  course  they  have been  told  but a  pervading malfeasance of fake  news and political  bitterness has deafened the ears  of these scientific professionals   such that they  have turned our world into a vast pandemic laboratory  for their   technicalities. They    have  easily  forgetting in their hubris ,  that  human  beings cannot be subjected to the same laboratory tests like their  experimental  mice and rodents and time is of essence in giving the bloody pandemic a fatal  kick in the ass into extinction and oblivion,  thus    saving humanity. I will go on now to show examples of calls, empirical and pragmatic that solutions are   there but ignored   and   lost in plain sight in defeating this pandemic. The first two are from the presidents of the US and Brazil. The other   is from   the Catholic Archbishop of Lagos, Nigeria. I  also  will show how governance is suffering unnecessarily because of  this pandemic with the chaotic Lagos go slow and traffic chaos on Lagos  highways that has gotten frantic and violently dangerous,  as   daily  travellers try  to beat the curfew of the  continuing  partial  lockdown . With  regard  to the belief  of the US  and  Brazilian Presidents on the use of nivaquine and another anti-malaria drug  to treat the pandemic in lieu of a vaccine,  they  have  my  support and I disagree with  people ridiculing their  position . As an African and like most Africans we have used nivaquine to treat malaria till new drugs like Amala came in. At   UNIFE as an undergraduate we were treated with nivaquine  with piriton for its side effect of itching and we  survived . Now the liberal media and politicians are ridiculing the two leaders because of their leadership style politically. This    has nothing to  do with the emergency solution they  have hurriedly   but   legally  imposed and legitimately  too because  the welfare , health and safety  of the people who elected them  rest  on  their    shoulders  as  elected leaders   and Democrats. Both have made sacrifices and are leading by example in not wearing masks as they could die as a result of this. The Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro  is not a stranger to death or mortality as he was shot while campaigning and was operated on but won and survived to lead his nation . The American President Donald Trump too is taking a great risk in not wearing a mask to show his people that the virus is not in control but him as president. It is a suicidal  risk as he could die as a result of his defiance but  if he survives the pandemic he will be unassailable in terms of acquired political  capital  and  goodwill  on  the way to the 2020 US presidential  election in November this year. Either way he has made a great almost suicidal sacrifice to dismantle the pandemic at any or all costs. I fear for his courage   but he has my grudging admiration on this account. In Nigeria this week the Catholic Archbishop of Lagos the Most Rev Adewale Thomas asked the Nigerian Health Authorities to allow herbal remedies for the pandemic. Coming from a church brought in by Colonisation and the slandering of indigenous   health    efforts in the past, this was a bold and enlightened effort by the Catholic Church which took the lead in social distancing and other hygiene standards before religious activities and others were locked down by the authorities. The government should listen to the Archbishops’ call because it is a life saving, pragmatic and   very reasonable one . Also in Nigeria, Lagos is a good example of how the pandemic has taken over transportation because of the fear of the 8 pm curfew. In a state whose capital has the largest set of workers in Nigeria the state of the go slow and long hours people spend on the streets in the traffic is pandemic. Part or most of this is due to road repairs which seem to be at the feet of the three bridges that link the Island to the Mainland. It has gone beyond the control of the LASMA, the traffic wardens and it is the Danfo drivers who own and control the highways and expressways with violent impunity and   defiance   of traffic laws. Government should climb down from its pandemic high horse and fix Lagos traffic before it gets out of hand. It is as simple and urgent as that. Once again from the fury of the pandemic, Good Lord Deliver Nigeria. Amen.