Today, some CampusLife alumni pay tribute to the pioneer editor, Ngozi Agbo, who died eight years ago. Her dedication, commitment to journalism and youth development inspired hundreds of students to pursue illustrious careers in journalism and other fields hinged on excellence. Thirteen years ago, The Nation conceptualised the CampusLife magazine as a pull-out for students by students, with the aim of promoting original content from campuses across Nigeria and training young people to become versatile journalists. Ngozi Agbo (nee Nwozor) was the first person saddled with the responsibility of breathing life to that idea. In her five years as CampusLife Editor, Ngozi trained hundreds of students across Nigeria to practise ethical journalism. She was not only interested in them delivering stories but became their motivator, big sister, advocate, financial supporter, helper, and much more. Ngozi introduced two initiatives, the CampusLife Student Writers’ workshop, and an awards ceremony, sponsored by the Nigerian Bottling Company (NBC) as annual programmes to help improve students’ writing and reportorial skills and incentivise their hard work. Today marks the eighth year, “Aunty Ngozi”, as she was fondly called by her students, passed on.  She died following complications during childbirth one month short of her 36th birthday.  But the graduate of English from the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN) with a Master’s from the University of Lagos (UNILAG) lives on in the hearts of the students she trained.  Many of them have become outstanding journalists, communication experts, lecturers, and activists, with local and international recognition for their work.  Tributes to Ngozi from CampusLife alumni Gilbert Alasa After God, I owe all I have become today to my encounter with this woman. She believed in me at a time when I didn’t believe in myself. Aunty Ngozi gave me a voice in a noisy world where no one gives you a chance. She allowed me sing my own song and tolerated the occasional wrong note. She taught me that with hard work and focus, each of us can rise to the pinnacle of achievement, irrespective of where and how our journey started. It all began in 2008, first time I stumbled on the eight-page Campus Life pull-out in The Nation. I was awed by the enormity of talent and passion brimming from the pages of what later became a trendsetter for Nigeria’s media. And to my amazement, all the reporters were students; some were even 100-Level students! So I decided to “shoot” Aunty Ngozi a mail, telling her how I loved to be part of the movement. Her response was prompt and reassuring: “Gilbert, I must say I’m impressed with your mastery of the English Language even in this small mail. You don’t sound at all like those green-eyed Jambites one sees around.  I however regret to tell you that we must wait until you get into a higher institution. I’ve been asking my bosses for additional pages so we can include people like you as well as NYSC members who I feel have something interesting to say. Pray for favour for me.” Just before I could scream Jack, my by-line became a regular feature on the platform every other week. I explored CampusLife to build a wider following, knocking on every door, challenging injustice, speaking for those who could not speak for themselves and talking to everyone that matter on campus and even outside. For me, this was the very genesis of my journey into significance. And every day, I am grateful that though I may not have taken the right decision at every point of my life, joining CampusLife was certainly my most rewarding decision ever. We should remember the beautiful soul she left behind, a wonderful son. His success as a young man should form a barometer with which we assess our own success. Toluwani Eniola Whenever the story of my journalism career is told, there will always be a woman that has a special place in that chronicle. That amazing woman was Aunty Ngozi Nwozor, who gave me the opportunity to practise journalism right from campus in 2007 when I was in my second year in the university. Aunty Ngozi was that link between dreams and reality. She went from being an editor to a sister and indeed a mother. When I was homeless after getting my first job, she quickly stepped in to save the day. In Ngozi, I found God’s bountiful provision for a fulfilling career in journalism and though she is gone now, her input lives on. I bless God for the beautiful memories we shared and for her indispensable contributions. I miss you, Aunty Ngozi!!!! I would have loved to tell her that my stories made great impact, that I won many national awards, including DAME Investigative Reporter of the Year, an ICFJ fellowship; earned two Master’s degrees, one in a world-class university and that I have been published in many foreign newspapers. If she were alive, I would organise a thank-you party and present all my laurels before her and say, “Thank you so much for kick starting all these achievements.” Hannah Ajakaiye (nee Ojo) Aunty Ngozi led a vision which empowered students to be change agents on their various campuses. Also, her ingenuity and industry birthed the CampusLife award which was the first of its kind as it provided a platform for students’ journalists all over Nigeria to be recognised. It is not surprising that some of the young journalists making impact in the industry today were mentored by her. Aunty Ngozi died empty, she impacted a generation. One key mantra that I learnt from her which I apply to my work is that excellence does not discriminate. In her lifetime, Aunty Ngozi was a stickler for excellence. Her work ethics, carriage and confidence were impressionable. She was proud of her profession as a journalist and she carried herself with the grace and dignity expected of the noble profession. From her, I learnt resilience and commitment to learning new innovations in the industry. She inspired me to be intentional about my career goals. She taught me to aspire for a higher standard as a journalist of international repute. This mindset is the drive behind the many international fellowships, awards and opportunities I’ve gotten in the few years of starting out as a full-time journalist. I wish she was alive to see how things have turned out for me and many some other CampusLife writers who are making global impact around the world. I have no doubt that even in death, she would be so proud. Ngozi Emmanuel Aunty Ngozi meant a lot of things to different people. However, for many of the young people she groomed at CampusLife, she was our mentor, our “Aunty Ngozi”. In many instances, she was a mother to us. Aunty Ngozi was at the forefront of our fight for a better student life in our various campuses. She motivated us without flattery or undue pressure and she inspired confidence in all of us. Every day now, I think of the towering beauty that she was; a kind, humble and compassionate journalist who used her gifts to build a group of strong independent forward-thinking young people. Personally, CampusLife was one of the best things that happened to me growing up and Aunty Ngozi was at the frontline of it. Today, I believe I am all that she ever desired I shall be. If I told her I am doing a PhD now, I do not think Aunty would be surprised at all. She had so much faith in me. So much hope. So much expectation. I miss her every day. I miss how she worried about me even in things like eating disorders. I wish she was here today to see us all. Fisayo Soyombo It felt strange to receive a call from The Nation’s  Kofoworola Belo-Osagie requesting a tribute in commemoration of the eighth death anniversary of Mrs. Ngozi Nwozor-Agbor. People like ‘Aunty Ngozi’, as we fondly called her, do not die. They may transit to glory but they live on through the thousands of beautifully-flickering candles they’ve ignited in their lifetime. How can Ngozi Marion Emmanuel, the young Nigerian lecturer whose academic career is conquering nations, or Hannah Ojo-Ajakaiye, one of Nigeria’s most accomplished young journalists, or Ayodele Obajeun, a Supply Chain Professional for P&G Middle-East, continue to set the world aglow then we say ‘Aunty Ngozi’ is dead? Many campus journalists of today may not know that ‘Aunty Ngozi’ was the one who cleared the path for the space they now enjoy on the pages of national dailies. The Campus Life pullout that she was picked by The Nation to run in 2007 was a first and was such a hit that many other newspapers followed suit. The success of that project is a lesson about how ideas don’t necessarily have to be popular for them to be successful. The crowd doesn’t need to believe; the proponents and the arrowheads just need to be personally convinced. Specifically, I’ve been asked the question: “What would you have loved to tell her about what you have achieved if she were here today?” My answer would be that I still have my integrity intact. That probably wasn’t the answer anyone was expecting. In a world as vainglorious as ours, journalists are often judged on things like awards, official titles and the depth of their pockets. None of these things matter to me. If Aunty NG were here, I’d have loved to tell her I’ve had opportunities to sell my soul for a pot of porridge but so far I haven’t. And I don’t intend to! Wale Ajetunmobi As a student of Industrial Chemistry who spent hours in the laboratory mixing chemicals and deriving reaction formulas, journalism was not the planned career for me. I had discovered a new skill in writing prior to getting into the university. I felt comfortable with my ability and nothing compelled me to push the skill until 2007 when I came across “CAMPUSLIFE” in The Nation. I started contributing stories, even without speaking with the Editor of the page – Aunty Ngozi. She published my stories (opinion or news) almost weekly, earning me the nickname “chemical journalist” among my classmates. I graduated from the university to join Aunty Ngozi on the CAMPUSLIFE Desk as a graduate trainee. Under her two-year professional tutelage, I learnt practical and emotional skills and values every young person needs to excel in his career. Those values have guided my journalism practice till today. The most striking of her personal values were honesty, patience and punctuality. If you were lacking in these, Aunty Ngozi would not allow you move close to her. These were the core of her counselling service to young people as a guardian, youth pastor and mentor. I remember her counsel three months before she passed away. I was contemplating leaving “CAMPUSLIFE” to apply for a job in a chemical processing factory. I could notice a tinge of disapproval from her facial expression when she said: “Wale, you are one of the best writers that have contributed stories to CAMPUSLIFE. You have worked closely with me and I can vouch for your writing ability. You write better than those studying Mass Communication. If you would take my advice, you should be a journalist and you would never regret taking this step.” Eight years on, I have had no regret heeding her advice. Continue to rest happily in the bosom of the Lord, Mrs. Ngozi Theresa Agbo (Nee, Nwozor).