  A total of 2,310 persons were arrested and 2,092 vehicles impounded for breaching the lockdown order emplaced as a measure to prevent further spread of the novel Coronavirus disease, COVID-19, the Lagos Police Command said on Sunday. It said 125 of those arrested were warned and released because they were underage; some were asked to write undertakings to be of good conducts/apology letters, while 2,185 were charged to court and awarded punishments ranging from two hours to six month community service as well as fines between N5,000 to N100,000 upon conviction. According to a statement by spokesman Bala Elkana, some of the violators were arrested in clubs, others held parties or group physical exercises in violation of the social distancing order. Of the 2,092 vehicles impounded, Elkana said 800 were private and 1,292 are commercial vehicles. The command, he said, also seized 1,535 motorcycles and 369 tricycles within the period. He said the command effectively manned its 14 identified borders with neighbouring states as tactical units were deployed to reinforce conventional patrol teams in such areas. Appreciating the supports from Lagos State Government and the Inspector General of Police (IG) Mohammed Adamu during the lockdown, Elkana said his boss, Hakeem Odumosu noted that the deployment of special forces from Abuja helped to reassure Lagos residents following the tension created by circulated rumour of planned attack on certain areas by “faceless criminal gangs…” “The battle against Coronavirus is not over yet. The command enjoins residents to adhere strictly with the guidelines issued by the Presidential Taskforce on COVID-19 and Lagos State Government to stop the spread of the virus. “The use of face mask is compulsory and social distancing principles must be maintained. Businesses and markets must stick to the opening and closing times allocated in the guidelines. “Commercial vehicle operators must not carry passengers more than the number stipulated in the guidelines. The order restricting non-essential interstate movements is still in force and the ban on social and religious gatherings has not been lifted. Schools remain closed until otherwise directed by the government. “The 8pm to 6am curfew imposed on residents by the government will be strictly enforced. The enforcement teams are fully out to apprehend violators and arraign them in court. We must all take responsibility for our safety and the safety of our communities. Together we can stop the spread of COVID-19,” he said. 