 Sir: Nigerian workers this year are not just in a state of dilemma like other Nigerians, they were caught unaware by COVID-19 pandemic currently plaguing the entire universe. This moment is certainly not the best of time for workers including those in the public service and private sector of the economy. Apart from the anxieties caused by the daily increase in the death toll, workers are equally threatened by the prospect of jobs losses after the pandemic. Really, there are reasons to fear given the likely aftermath effects of the pandemic on the global economy. The reality is that we are likely to be doomed if adequate measures are not taken expeditiously to ensure the survival of the nation’s economy after the pandemic. As federal and state governments continue to device measures towards mitigating the effects of the pandemic, workers should get prepared to make necessary sacrifices to assist the nation achieve speedy economic recovery. Workers should help make up for the loses so far recorded since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. When work resumes and workers are fully returned to their desks, it is important everyone thinks about how to make use of the experience learnt during this critical period in our nation’s history to add value and contribute meaningfully to economic recovery measures which the governments are bound to introduce. One major failure that the coronavirus pandemic has exposed is the lack of effective and enduring coping strategies for businesses during global crises.  Unlike the situation in the developed economies where e-organization operate without any serious hindrance, the prevailing business and organizational culture in our country today is far below the minimum standard. Even the private sector that seems to have already been paying attention to the scientific innovations being the in-thing now such as e-business and e-commerce have not got it right as workers and management of the private organizations equally face challenge of cyber-loafing on daily basis. Even when workers are ready to operate virtual administrative system, the success still depends largely on critical factors such as availability of power supply, internet access and computer literacy skills of the workforce. Whatever the circumstances, workers should remain steadfast and not lose hope. The storm will soon be over. What is expected of the Nigerian workers is to see the period of lockdown to keep safe and obey the government directives on COVID-19. This is not the time to pursue or engage in any risky venture so much when the storm is over workers will be alive, hale and hearty to contribute significantly to the nation’s economic recovery and infrastructural development.  Oyo, Oyo State.