Many Nigerians had foreseen that this would happen! Armed robbery attacks have almost become commonplace in the Southwest, especially in Ogun, Lagos and Oyo states. When about a month ago, the Federal Government ordered a stay-at-home to contain the spread of the Covid-19, many had thought if there was going to be any invasion by hoodlums, only their foodstuff and other consumables would be carted away since the Federal Government did not put all odds in check ahead of the lockdown. A friend shared a WhatsApp message with a panic tone to me, urging that I pray for the residents of Ogun State in Sango, Sagamu, Ifo, who, according to him, are at the mercy of these marauders. Similarly, there were reports on the unfortunate incidents associated with these dreadful attacks. Painfully, citizens cannot move out freely for the fear of contracting the deadly Coronavirus; and while staying in their homes, they go to bed with one eye open as their ‘next door neighbours’  can strike at any time. To be candid, robbery attacks during this period are unfortunate and heart-wrenching. It is sad when citizens strive to comply with the stay-at-home directive of the government, only to now live in fear of being killed or maimed by the men of the underworld. While many battle with hunger amid the insufficient or should I say poorly coordinated government palliatives, they remain uncertain of being protected, adequately, from evil machinations. It took a while for the security operatives to counter these attacks. The response came from the policy, albeit at a snail pace. Residents of Ogun State, according to reports, were dazzled by the complete insouciance of the armed robbers who are emboldened to perpetrated atrocities, even in  daylight. Even, the Police Force appeared almost helpless at a point by the activities of these hoodlums who seemed to be at ease as they unleashed terror to harmless residents. In Lagos State, the situation is the same. Residents in some local government areas share sordid experiences. Oyo State too is not an exception. There are robbery attacks in some local governments which reportedly sprouted from cult clashes. These attacks are not hunger-driven. The hoodlums are delinquents who took advantage of the lockdown to perpetuate criminal activities. In every case however, this shows that the structure piecing the security architecture is on a porous foundation. What has happened to the police patrols? What has become of the security operatives designated to enforce the lockdown? Where are they when these marauders strike leaving in their wake sorrows, tears and blood? What I think should be in place is the alertness, efficiency and effectiveness of the security operatives to forestall further attacks—be it robbery or not—on the citizens. By carrying out such tasks without politicising them, the police can again, reassure the citizenry of their protection. Anything short of this is tantamount to   tempting residents to take up arms to confront their attackers. Overall, this can thwart the government’s stay-at-home measure and at large, jeopardise the  security. The citizens should also assist the security operatives in intelligence gathering. They have a duty to report any suspicious movements in their community. The truth of the matter is that the security operatives cannot work in isolation. Citizens also have a major stake in ensuring peace in their respective communities; and should be the first to reach out to the police  of any impending attacks.