 Ondo State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, has ordered arrest of anybody walking in the street that failed to wear nose mask. Governor Akeredolu said anybody arrested for not wearing nose mask would be placed on 14 days isolation at the person’s own cost. The Governor stated this while flagging off distribution of 500,000 nose masks produced by tailors in the state. He said the production of the nose masks and subsequent distribution were part of the numerous efforts to combat spread of COVID-19. Akeredolu who warned against not wearing nose masks in public places said the best protection against contracting COVID-19 was the wearing of nose masks. He stated that the initiative of massive production and distribution of nose masks was borne out of his desire to always put the people first in dealings and feelings. Governor Akeredolu said his administration engaged the services of 400 tailors across the state to enable generate income to cushion the effect of the lockdown caused by COVID-19. He said the nose masks were produced according to specifications of the International Health Organisations and materials deployed met the prescribed medical standard world over. According to him, “Our tailors working on the production processes are happy. They are happy not because there is COVID-19 but having the opportunity to exhibit their talents, learning new skills and being able to generate income to cushion the effects of the pandemic on their livelihood. “In the course of the production of these nose masks over 400 tailors were engaged who are working round the clock to ensure that we meet our target for our teeming populace. “Wearing of nose masks in public places is mandatory for every resident in the state. The enforcement has already commenced. “It is significant for me to inform the public that whoever is arrested for not wearing the nose mask will be kept in the isolation centre for 14 days and have his specimen taken to be tested for the virus. Such individual will be responsible for his or her upkeep at the centre.” Some of the tailors who spoke appreciated Governor Akeredolu for engaging them at a time their shops were locked. They said their business was worst hit by COVID-19 because people no longer sew new clothing