OMOLARA AKINTOYE writes about Opeyemi Kikelomo who mysteriously became blind at the age of 14, but has been able to excel despite all odds. Opeyemi Adewale Kikelemo, a bright 14-year-old, was in secondary school when everything in her life changed. She had rushed home after a long day in school, exhausted but excited. Soon it was TV time! A popular children’s animated television series, Fantastic Four, was airing and they all sat to savour it. Five minutes into the show, her vision began to blur. She assumed it was the TV; what else could it be? She blinked profusely but her sight didn’t clear up. Rather it got worse. In a few seconds, it was dark. Opeyemi did the only thing she could; she screamed out to her mother: ‘Mummy mi o le ri ran!’ (Mum, I can’t see). Pathetic, you’d say. That was how Opeyemi Kikelomo became mysteriously blind at the tender age of 14. After several visits to health care centres – at one point, she was scheduled for a surgery; the doctors officially diagnosed her blind! Her puzzled mother grappled with the new reality. How was this possible? Kilelomo’s mother questioned everything. However, life continued for the family and Kikelomo’s drive and determination shined through her blindness. She sat for the NECO and JAMB exams and to her mother’s surprise, passed both. But she was not done shocking her. A few months after, she got admission into the University of Lagos. Everyone in the family was overjoyed. The joy hid the questions everyone was too scared to ask – how would they afford this good news? Where would the funds for school come from? The family struggled to make the first year’s tuition and Kikelomo’s diligence doubled. She was going to make her family proud. But the challenge of finance remained. Relief however came in her second year, when Kikelomo applied for MTN Foundation’s Scholarship Scheme For Blind Students (MTNF SSBS) and was selected. “By the end of the screening process, I was awarded a scholarship to finish my education,” she recalled with joy in her voice. The joy in her home knew no bounds. MTN had taken a huge burden off their necks and they were grateful. “I was fortunate to be an MTN beneficiary. Life became much easier. I could get whatever I wanted. In fact, that’s the proper definition of support.” Opeyemi exhaled. She graduated and applied at PricewaterhouseCoopers, a multinational professional services network of firms. After interviews, she received an offer letter and handed it over to her ecstatic mother! At work, Opeyemi is a delight. Moyosore Olaolu-Diya, Manager, Learning and Development, PWC explained her first contact with the graduate intern. “From the moment Opeyemi walked in, we could see somebody willing to learn. She’s not somebody who sees herself as disabled.” Her mum, to say the least, was overjoyed. She still couldn’t contain her joy and still shakes her head in wonderment every time her daughter sends her allowance from her monthly salary. “We are living comfortably because Ope is okay,” she says, even as she struggled not to get emotional. Without MTN’s support, she is not sure her daughter would have got such big job opportunity. She didn’t finish her story. The emotions she kept struggling to hold back finally took the better of her.