 Repentant leaders of the defunct Movement for Emancipation of Niger Delta (MEND) have thrown their weight behind the position of President Muhammadu Buhari on the Interim Management Committee (IMC) of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). The ex-militant leaders under the auspices of Leadership, Peace and Cultural Development Initiative (LPCDI) said they were particularly happy with Buhari for refusing to yield to the campaigns of calumny against members of the IMC. “We are in support of the President’s decision to extend the tenure of the Interim Management Committee of the Commission,” they said. President of LPCD, Clifford Wilson, formerly known in the creeks as Pastor Reuben, said on Monday in Port Harcourt that the people of the Niger Delta region were happy with the extension of the tenure of the IMC led by Prof. Kemebradikumi Pondei. He said: “We are happy with the manner in which Professor Kemebradikumi Pondei and his team are managing and running the intervention body and want to pass a vote of confidence in them. We have not seen any impropriety in their activities since they assumed office rather they have been doing everything within limited resources to provide succor to our people.” Wilson lamented sponsored attacks against political office holders from the region and warned persons behind such wicked blackmails to sheathe their swords. “We call on them to desist from the campaign of calumny and blackmail against political office holders from the Niger Delta region. “They must learn to eschew bitterness and accommodate one another without throwing spanners in the works. We, as Niger Delta people, must learn to always support our own. No one is hundred per cent perfect but we shouldn’t drag them into opprobrium out of selfishness”, he said. Wilson insisted that the ex-militant leaders were excited that Pondei and his team in NDDC remained focused despite the media attacks to ensure forensic audit of the commission as directed by President Buhari. He lambasted selfish and myopic persons, who were fond of seeking financial gratification from office holders instead of working with them to develop the region. He advised Pondei to maintain a good name he had earned over the years by ensuring the development of rural communities in the region. He said ex-militant leaders would continue to work with the board of the NDDC to maintain the peace in the region.