 The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) has sustained its digital adaptation with the commencement of its first online Automated Trading System (ATS) certification training for graduate members who desire to become Authorised Dealing Clerks of the Exchange. The first cohort under the new remote framework consisted of 33 participants and had successfully gone through the training. The ATS certification training is an intensive training organised by the NSE for individuals who have passed the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS) qualification examination. It is part of the mandatory, eligibility and admission procedure for any individual who wishes to become an Authorised Dealer of the Exchange. Speaking on the transition to virtual training, Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Mr. Oscar Onyema, said since the activation of the business continuity plan that saw NSE transition to remote trading and working, the NSE has remained resolute in its commitment to maintaining business and trading operations. According to him,  the review of the ATS from the pre-existing classroom training to a virtual set up is just one of efforts in leveraging digital assets to maintain the flow of information and market activity; deliver on its mandate for capacity building; and continue to enhance stakeholders’ experience in the market. Head, Trading Business Division, NSE, Mr. Jude Chiemeka, added that at the impact of the Coronavirus pandemic has necessitated that NSE comes up with more digital friendly solutions to keep activities in the market moving. He noted that the volume of sign-ups received for this virtual ATS Training was, therefore, a testament to the appetite of Nigerians to engage in the capital market as operators. “The NSE is pleased about the keen interest we have seen and will continue to provide learning and trading opportunities that will benefit our stakeholders,” Chiemeka said. The ongoing ATS Training covers the standardised course outline and is being facilitated by subject matter experts within the capital market ecosystem, including the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Central Securities Clearing System (CSCS), Registrars, Association of Issuing Houses of Nigeria (ASHON), Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS), and internal stakeholders within the NSE. 