The Lagos State government has activated its digital platforms for teachers training and also set up a team of technology professionals to support the process. Speaking during an orientation on the digital training programme for Grades 08-13 teachers held virtually on the Microsoft Teams platform, the Chairman, Teaching Service Commission (TESCOM), Mrs. Olabisi Ariyo, said that the training was part of efforts by the Commission to transform the post – primary teaching service into a Digital – Smart Workforce. “Since it is generally accepted that no educational system can rise above the standard of its teachers, the Commission is totally committed to addressing the digital inadequacies of our teachers who are critical to the realisation of this administration’s THEMES Agenda”, she said. Mrs. Ariyo thanked Microsoft for supporting the training through ATB Techsoft Solutions Limited, to upgrade the teachers’ skills in line with current realities. On his part, the Country Manager, Microsoft, Mr. Akin Banuso urged the teachers to be committed to the training. “We are here to support you. I want to encourage you to participate fully in the Programme. The journey and the experiences are all for you. Please, take them seriously,” he said. Also speaking, CEO, ATB Techsoft Solutions Limited, Mr. Abiodun Atobatele, praised the Lagos State Government for pioneering the training and considering every teacher as ambassadors of the state. He told the teachers to follow up on the training through the firm’s social media channels on LinkedIn, Twitter and Facebook. “We have opened several channels for you to follow and be abreast of the training. Send your details and you will be allocated a group in our different channels through your activity application and you must take time to read through the guidelines”. In her remarks, the Permanent Secretary, TESCOM, Mrs. Toyin Awoseyi, urged the teachers to take the programme seriously because Covid-19 pandemic has initiated a “new normal” in the sector that required skills upgrade.