A coalition of private sector leaders under the umbrella of Coalition Against COVID-19 (CACOVID) has donated a 66-bed isolation centre worth N200 million to Kano State Government. CACOVID was formed in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak in Nigeria with the aim of providing support and complementing efforts of governments in Nigeria at different level to combat the virus. However, the facility, Abubakar Imam Urology Centre, renovated and remodeled by the CACOVID as an isolation centre, contains 66 beds and other state-of-the-art equipment. Speaking during the handing over of the facility, representative of the coalition, Abdulkadir Sidi disclosed that the group had spent N200 million for conversion of the hospital to isolation center. “The coalition had provided equipment needed at a world standard isolation center in addition to repainting of the inner and outer spaces of the facility as well as provision of air-conditioning in all the rooms,” he said. He added that the gesture was in addition to the newly established 300-bed isolation centre at Sani Abacha Stadium, which would soon be handed over to the state government. ” The coalition has spent over N200 million in renovating, remodeling and equipping the Abubakar Imam Isolation centre in Kano which is dilapidated, as part of the CACOVID complementing efforts of the Nigerian Governments at different level to combat the COVID-19 crisis in Kano state and the country at large. “Your Excellency, this is another commitment by the CACOVID. Alhaji Aliko Dangote has also instructed me to inform you that this is another gesture in his continuous commitment to not only fight coronavirus, but to defeat it completely in this state. ” He said I should tell you that Aliko Dangote Foundation and CACOVID will continue to support you until you conquer the virus in the state,” he assured. Sidi further stressed the effort was a total renovation of the facility to enable it serve the purpose of isolating COVD-19 patients in the state. Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje revealed the state government lack words to express how grateful the government is to Alhaji Aliko Dangote. According to him the state is indeed indebted to Dangote for always being there for the people.