A leading international energy and infrastructural conglomerate, Sahara Group, has said a coordinated intervention by African private sector businesses would go a long way to strengthen the ongoing fight against the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) across the continent. An Executive Director of Sahara Group, Temitope Shonubi, who made this point on Sunday while taking journalists on a tour of the completed over 300-bed COVID-19 Isolation and Treatment Centre at the This Day Some in Abuja, also gave reasons why the Sahara Foundation developed the idea of the massive Abuja treatment centre in collaboration with other businesses. Shonubi said leading African businesses could leverage their membership of trade associations, the Private Sector Advisory Group platform of the United Nations and the African Influencers for Development (AI4Dev) platform of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) to drive a more cohesive and effective response to the COVID-19 pandemic in Africa. “Sahara Group, through our operations across Africa, has consistently demonstrated its support for intra-Africa led approach to promoting economic prosperity and sustainable development on the continent. “Sahara Foundation, our corporate citizenship vehicle conceptualized the Abuja Isolation Centre project, partnered with the This Day media group and worked with other partners to deliver a world-class facility that will help save lives. “Sahara is also supporting COVID-19 interventions across Africa and is exploring areas of further collaboration with other partners for the benefit of over 1.3 billion people that call Africa home,” he said. Shonubi said Sahara Foundation’s concept for the project was driven by the desire to make a difference in how nations respond to the pandemic in terms of physical, mental, and socio-economic well-being of all Africans. “In addition to playing a major role in delivering the centre, Sahara and its entities have been involved in providing personal protective equipment and relief materials to help medical personnel and the vulnerable cope with the impact of the pandemic. We believe the ‘Africa for Africa’ message is one that can bring hope and succour to Africa at this time,” he said. According to Shonubi, who is also a member of UNDP Africa’s AI4Dev initiative, Sahara Group is providing dry and cooked food to over one million beneficiaries, face masks, hand sanitizers and relief materials to communities where its power affiliates (Ikeja Electric, Egbin Power and First Independent Power Limited), upstream and other Sahara affiliates operate across Africa. “In Zambia, Asharami Energy Limited Company donated tens of thousands of hand-made fabric/Chitenge masks to shore up access to PPE and slow the spread of the virus. The company also publishes materials in English, Bemba, and Nyanja to facilitate the dissemination of information about the pandemic. “In Kenya, Asharami Synergy Limited donated thousands of 5 litre jerrycans of hand sanitizers, whilst oxygen has been donated to hospitals in Ghana as well as Cote d’Ivoire to boost life support operations”, he said. Sahara’s downstream entity, Asharami Synergy, working in collaboration with other members of the Depot and Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (DAPMAN), is providing support towards the completion and equipping of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation Hospital in Abuja. The Abuja Isolation and Treatment Centre, located at the THISDAY Dome in Abuja, was delivered by a coalition of partners including Sahara Foundation, THISDAY, CCECC, Arise News, The Presidency, Egbin Power, Abuja Electricity Distribution Company and Federal Capital Territory Authority (FCTA). Other partners were the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), the Federal Ministry of Health, the African Finance Corporation, Central Bank of Nigeria through CaCovid. Wood Factory, the Regents school, the three fashion brands of Ebewele Brown, Traffic Clo and Syari Clothiers, Kenol, Mama Cass, 54 Gene and Central Park. The Centre which will be overseen by the FCTA under the supervision of NCDC has a capacity of a minimum of 300 beds with additional six plus two Intensive Care Unit beds, ventilators, dialysis machines, protective equipment, and mobile facilities for testing.