 Sir: While the world awaits a vaccine or a serum, staying at home seems to be the most potent weapon against this novel coronavirus. Although the causes and spread of the pandemic is still unfolding, the infodemic is that the less physical contact we have with ourselves, the less likely the infectious disease disperses. The use of lockdowns, which was China’s way of containing the virus that broke out in Wuhan, is coming at a high cost on the overall global economy. Crude oil and commodity prices are crashing to single digits. Retail stores and sports franchises are counting their losses and unemployment figures are skyrocketing. Donald Trump is pushing for the reopening of the American economy against scientific advice and spirit of the federal constitution that gives individual states power to do so. Brazil’s president, Jair Bolsonaro, who coincidentally is a Trump ally, coughed his way through his address as he joined unmasked protesters demanding that lockdowns imposed by states be lifted. Both Trump and Bolsonaro want an urgent end to the lockdown because the they draw strength from the progress of their respective macroeconomies. All around the world, industries are itching to normalize commercial activities but experts are calling for caution so as not to trigger a resurgence that may be worse. Since coronavirus arrived Africa late, the continent had considerable time to observe how other more developed nations handled the raging pandemic. And as cases increased, African governments began imposing guidelines to the resistance of the populace. African governments were forced to be highhanded as citizens looked for ways out so their livelihoods were not bartered for the fewer lives that are being lost to the pandemic. In fact, a Malawian court blocked the government’s lockdown plan to protect the poor. This battle between health security and economic security is what I perceived, led to the government’s decision to begin relaxing the lockdown. Besides the authorities themselves gave the citizenry moral reasons to flout the stay-at-home with the disproportionate manner they distributed the palliatives and their obvious defiance of the social distance, self-isolation and burial protocols they set. The lockdown was also seen as a waste of time as fumigation of public places didn’t take place neither were massive tests done to ascertain the actual state of pandemic in the country. With all these and the many trembles suffered before this corona pandemic, Nigerians shunned government directives and took personal responsibility for their lives. Where this was so glaring were the vigils kept in the lockdown states of Lagos, Ogun and Abuja by men in fearful anticipated of dozen-sized robbery gangs that come to raid their communities. The most notorious of these go by the name One Million Boys in the Lagos area and they have a decade history of terrorizing neighbourhoods by robbing them of their possessions, raping and causing injuries.  Knowing their house locks, burglary fittings, iron gates and local gatemen couldn’t save them, adult males (some of whom are landlords), on hearing rumours that these bunch of criminals were coming to ravage their localities, took up the challenge by staying up nightly at junctions to find a way of waylaying them if they arrived. With machetes and other rudimentary weapons, they grouped themselves around bonfires in disregard to social distancing as their form of defending their homes against the miscreants. The wives and sisters at home in the sweltering heat of those nights without power supply kept awake in prayers for their safety. It was a sobering story. To make Nigerians sleep with both eyes closed does not require prolonged constitutional amendment nor is not about using quota system to employ more constables. That citizens turned themselves into vigilantes is also an indication that community policing is the way to go. With simple streetlights that function, nefarious activities are curbed. With accountable investment in CCTV cameras, viable database and proper urban planning with standardized zip codes, there would be a deterrent to crime. Finally, food security is national security. It was not only the COVID-19 figures that increased during the extended lockdown: 20 million Nigerians were added to the 90 million that live below the bread line. Scary! With the daily livelihoods of motor park touts, artisans and the like, suspended for over a month, one can only guess that some took advantage of the everyone’s presence at home to hide under the generic One Million Boys to eke out a life. Now that the lockdown has been eased, they can at least return to their daily hustles. Maybe then we can sleep. Maybe.  Festac, Lagos.