The coronavirus pandemic took the entire world by surprise leaving everyone unprepared as to what steps to take to address its impact. As governments and institutions scampered for solutions out of the quagmire, the Central Bank of Nigeria has risen to the challenge with wide-ranging measures to tackle its head on, reports Group Business Editor, SIMEON EBULU For going concerns in one form of related business or the other in the face of the rampaging COVID-19, the various CBN intervention measures recently unveiled, will make a lot of difference. For starters, it will take a while for them to take root and make good impact in the short-run.  Nonetheless, these measures offer a great leverage for all to make a mark given the wide-ranging financial support coming from the Central Bank of Nigeria in the light of business opportunities thrown up by this pandemic, The CBN as part of its developmental role, has recognised early a window of opportunities, ‘in-despair’, you might say, that if harnessed could turn this crisis into creative endeavours that could form the bedrock of a new manufacturing revolution in Nigeria. CBN offerings In addressing the rampaging impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on global supply chains, demand shocks and their impacts on liquidity and growth prospects, the CBN announced a set of policy measures, among others, including a one year moratorium on all principal repayments effective March 1, 2020, reduction of interest rate from 9.0 per cent to 5.0 per cent on all applicable CBN intervention facilities and the establishment of a N50 billion targeted credit facility through the NIRSAL Microfinance Bank for households and SMEs vulnerable to the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, the CBN opened intervention facilities and loans of up to N100 billion to pharmaceutical companies intending to expand operations and for setting up drug manufacturing plants, and granted Deposit Money Banks leave to consider temporary and time-limited restructuring of the tenor and loan terms for businesses and households most affected by the outbreak of COVID-19. It also strengthened the Loan deposit Ratio (LDR) policy to support credit growth, in addition to further supporting industry funding levels to maintain DMB’s capacity to direct credit to individuals, households and businesses. The CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, in an article, entitled, ‘Turning the COVID-19 Tragedy into an Opportunity for a  New Nigeria,’  envisioned certain critical sectors that must be supported to actualise the set objectives. He underlined the need to build a base of high quality infrastructure, including reliable power that can engender industrial activity; support for both smallholder and large scale agriculture production in select staple and cash crops; creating an ecosystem of factories, storage and logistics companies that move raw materials for value-added production, as well as finished goods to markets; usage of the bank’s fiscal priorities to create a robust educational system that enables critical thinking and creativity, to better prepare our children for the world of tomorrow. Also included is the development of a healthcare system that is trusted to keep all Nigerians healthy, irrespective of social class and facilitating access to cheap and long-term credit for Small and Medium-Scale Enterprises (SMEs) and large corporates. Inclusive is developing and strengthening pro-poor policies that bring financial services and security to the poor and the vulnerable; and expediting the development of venture capitalists for nurturing new ideas and engendering Nigerian businesses to compete globally. Time to act is now Emefiele’s concern and urgency for Nigeria to take a stand and reposition the country for the future, stemmed from his observation of the reaction of the global community, including international trading partners to requests for  needed items, including medicament required to  address the COVID-19 pandemic. Ae said: “Around the world, countries have moved away from multilateralism and responded by fighting for themselves with several measures to protect their own people and economies, regardless of the spill over effects on the rest of the world,” adding, “according to the World Customs Organization, 32 countries and territories, adopted stringent and immediate export restrictions on critical medical supplies and drugs that were specifically meant to respond to COVID-19. His words: As of 10 April 2020, an updated count of total export restrictions by the Global Trade Alert Team at the University Of St. Gallen Switzerland, suggest a total of 102 restrictions by 75 countries. On 4 March 2020, Germany announced an export ban that applied to all sorts of medical protection gear, including breathing masks, medical gloves and protective suits. Around the same time, he said, President Emmanuel Macron announced that France will requisition all face masks produced in the country, amounting to a de facto export ban. Between 8 February 2020 and 6 April 2020, India released eight different export notifications banning several drugs and medical supplies including hydroxychloroquine, ventilators, personal protections masks, oxygen therapy apparatus, and breathing devices, he said. He continued: “On 3 April 2020, the Trump Administration invoked the war-era US Defense Production Act to stop major US mask manufacturer, 3M, from exporting N95 respirator masks to Canada and Latin America,” saying fears of a long global recession have also led to worries about unprecedented global food insecurity, with concerns that agricultural production may be dislocated by containment measures that constrain workers from planting, managing and harvesting critical crops.” Emefiele expressed surprise that rather than seek cooperative and global solutions, several countries simply resorted to export restrictions of critical agricultural produce, pointing out that  the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI), has predicted that about 37 countries have enacted various forms of food export restrictions in response to COVID-19, even in countries where average production exceeds domestic consumption, citing Viet Nam, the world’s third largest exporter of rice, as an example, for suspending granting rice export certificates until the country “reviews domestic inventories”. Russia, the world’s largest wheat exporter, Emefiele also said, announced a ten-day ban on the export of buckwheat and rice due to concerns over panic buying in local supermarkets. What is even more alarming, he asked, what if these restrictions become the new normal? What if the COVID-19 pandemic continues in a second wave or another pandemic occurs in which all borders are shut and food imports are significantly restricted? What if we cannot seek medical care outside Nigeria and must rely on local hospitals and medical professionals? How will Nigeria cope? For how long shall we continue to rely on the world for anything and everything at every time? he queried. Although these developments are troubling, he stated, they present a clear opportunity to re-echo a persistent message, he said the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has been sending for a long time, and at this time even more urgently so, stressing that Nigeria must look inwards as a nation and guarantee food security, high quality and affordable healthcare, and cutting-edge education for her people. He said for a country of over 200 million people, and rapidly growing, “we can no longer ignore repeated warnings about the dangers that lie ahead if we do not begin to depend largely on what we produce locally,” saying the security and well-being of our nation is contingent on building a well-diversified and inclusive productive economy. The drive to see a new Nigeria emerge post COVID-19 is not limited to the CBN alone. The leadership of the apex bank has equally initiated other platforms to engage the private sector as well. The private sector, through CACOVID-19 (Coalition Against COVID-19), has garnered over N27 billion as at the last count to fight the pandemic. Reactions A major operator in the health sector, Adigun Mustapha, has commenced the CBN for setting N2 billion as the maximum borrowing limit for any healthcare provider seeking to access the N100 billion lifeline it approved for the health sector, saying the fund established to cushion the impact of  the COVID-19 pandemic on the economy and to support healthcare providers, will go a long way in helping operators do better in this period of crisis. He said fund is also meant to ensure that the sector meets the expected rise in the demand for healthcare products and services, saying  the interest rate for the facility is low at five per cent. He said  the exit date of  December 31, 2030 was long enough for borrowers to have paid off and stabilise their businesses. Term loan shall have a maximum tenor of not more than 10 years with a maximum of one year moratorium on repayment. In terms of construction, the tenor shall be determined by the completion date is a commendable move for every healthcare provide that wants to take the loan,” he said. He said the fund will reduce health tourism and conserve foreign exchange, provide long-term, low cost finance for healthcare infrastructure development, and improve access to affordable credit by indigenous pharmaceutical companies, adding that the scheme will improve access to affordable credit by indigenous pharmaceutical companies to expand their operations and comply with the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) good manufacturing practices. Also speaking, Michael Obi, a Lagos-based entrepreneur, said governments are generally saddled with the responsibility of ensuring sustenance of the trajectory of growth and development for their economies, pointing out that government will normally harness domestic and external resources to finance projects and ventures that may otherwise not be possible or profitable for the private sector to undertake. But in time of crisis like COVID-19, government needs to be supported and the role the CBN has played has both been timely and helpful. He said for a developing economy like Nigeria, particularly at a time such as this, one can observe the urgency with which the rejuvenation of the economy, requires policy formulation focus on and sometimes direct participation in the provision of critical infrastructure. Hide original message He said the CBN has over the years been directly or indirectly involved in the financing of growth-enhancing programmes and projects of the Federal Government. The involvement is incidental to the bank’s core mandates and part of its development and corporate social responsibilities, to accelerate growth and development of the Nigerian economy. There are various schemes and programmes either implemented directly, in conjunction with the Federal Government or through specialised financial institutions. He said the bank’s intervention initiatives encompass real sector programmes, particularly, agriculture, small and medium enterprises, infrastructure and youth empowerment. Notable among them are: the Commercial Agriculture Credit Scheme; Real Sector Support Facility (RSSF); SME Credit Guarantee Scheme (SMECGS); SME Re-structuring and Refinancing Fund (SMERRF); Nigeria Incentive-based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL); Power and Airline Intervention Fund (PAIF); Nigeria Electricity Market Stabilisation Fund (NEMSF); Anchor Borrowers’ Programme (ABP); Nigeria Textile Intervention Fund; Non-oil Export Stimulation Facility; Youth Innovative Entrepreneurship Development Programme (YIEDP); and Export Credit Rediscounting and Refinancing Facility. These initiatives have continued to impact positively on employment, food security, and power generation, transmission and distribution. All these are in addition to CBN’s Ways and Means Advances to the Federal Government. He said the CBN has through the COVID-19 interventions, come up with  innovative ways of financing government programmes in this period of economic downturn.