Shina Philips, initiator of the annual Nigeria Pitch Awards (NPA), is a man of many parts. A football lover and FIFA-licensed agent, he’s also a security consultant and analyst and social commentator. Philips recently aired his opinion on the novel coronavirus describing it as a test of human weakness and strength. Looking beyond sport and organizing the seventh edition of Nigeria Pitch Awards, Philips reasoned that cooperation and collaboration among nations of the world will defeat coronavirus. TAIWO ALIMI captured his thoughts. 7th Nigeria Pitch Awards We had already scheduled the 7th Award Ceremony of the Nigeria Pitch Awards before the lockdown was announced. But like other international events, the pandemic had forced organizers to suspend the event. This is not the only international event affected by the lockdown. The Olympic Games have also suffered this same fate. Major sporting events around the world including the unavoidable English Premiership League and many other football leagues around the world have been suspended. For us as a responsible organization, we could not have done otherwise. We felt we should abide by government’s order and toe the line of all responsible organizations. However, we are strategizing to ensure we can still hold the award ceremony in line with the social distancing guideline. Pitch awards nominees Voting for the 7th edition of the Nigeria Pitch awards was done by over 100 sport editors spread across the 36 states of Nigeria and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. All votes cast were collated and verified by an independent body before the list of nominees is announced at the press conference. For the Striker of the Year award, Manchester United striker Odion Ighalo will battle Super Eagles’ duo of Victor Osimhen and Samuel Chukwueze while Nigeria and Barcelona forward Asisat Oshoala is in the Queen of the Pitch award alongside Chiamaka Nnadozie and Onome Ebi. Ighalo and Osimhen also got nominations in the King of the Pitch award, which also has Nigeria and Leicester midfielder Wilfred Ndidi. Ndidi is mentioned again in the Midfield of the Year category alongside Oghenekaro Etebo and Joe Aribo. In the Goalkeeper of the Year category, Chiamaka Nnadozie of Paris FC, Kaizer Chiefs’ Daniel Akpeyi and Francis Uzoho of Deportivo La Coruna are shortlisted. Chidozie Awaziem, William Troost-Ekong and Kenneth Omeruo will compete for the Defender of the Year award. Winning the war I want to state clearly that COVID-19 is at war with the human race. But unlike other diseases that humans have dealt with in the past, COVID-19 has revealed the extent of human weakness and strength. The pandemic has shown that man’s touted areas of strength such as sophisticated long and medium range weapons and elaborate defense systems, investments and money have not played any great part in this war. This pandemic has shown us how frail and weak we are. Our strength lies in our cooperating with the authorities and acting together by listening to one another and adhering to the measures put in place by the government and international organizations like the WHO. Our government is following international best practices in global guidelines laid out to curb the spread of the pandemic. As safety measures, we have the principle of social distancing, testing of those who display symptoms of the virus, tracing those who have made contact with infected persons and treating confirmed cases. The government must invest resources in extensive campaign to create awareness because this must continue. There must be awareness and enforcement of the principle of social distancing.’ Man’s immediate best chance of winning this war is social distancing. We must continue with this while expecting the scientists in the developed world to come up with a vaccine. In the United Kingdom, the government recently released funding to the tune of £20 million to the Oxford University for the funding of three projects related to the extensive research on a vaccine for COVID-19. The projects include research for effective vaccine, working on pre-clinical and clinical vaccine trials and support for the manufacturing process to produce vaccine to the scale of up to a million doses. In the United States, clinical trials for COVID-19 vaccine have begun at the New York University Langone Health. There are of course several other efforts on-going to produce effective treatment for infected persons. It is usually an exceptionally long process with many protocols. It is now a race for man’s survival. We can get it out in a shorter span of time for the safety of the human race. Surely if there is a vaccine, we know that the virus can be eradicated. While these efforts are on-going, we should adhere to the advice of one of the Governors in the United States who said individuals should behave or act like they have COVID-19 while thanking God that you don’t have it. Strategic campaign As at December 2019, Nigeria had 126 million internet users and just 27 million of them are on Facebook. There are Nigerians who do not have access to the internet, the TV and even the radio. With epileptic power supply, how many Nigerians can get information on TV or over the radio. The government should have extensively used the local traditional and oral media to reach many who live in the rural areas and who do not have direct access to the social media. They could have used local town criers and public address system to disseminate important information on COVID-19 in local languages to rural dwellers and those who do not have access to our conventional news media. Opinion leaders, traditional rulers and religious leaders are strategically placed to reach their immediate constituencies with the right information. Unfortunately, these people were not used in the sensitization campaign. If the government had done this, we would have seen a better response of the populace to the campaign on social distancing.’ Contributions of corporate organizations Some corporate bodies have done very well. For them, it is a matter of interest. When they donate to government or the people, it is essentially a part of their Corporate Social Responsibility. This is not so for religious bodies. The action of religious leaders who sent relief materials to the government is good, but I can state that it is not expedient. Religious leaders shepherd very many people and are closer to these people than the government. As they say, charity begins at home. By attempting to reach out, they should have taken care of their own first by providing relief materials for their members and thereafter, the community. How many of their members will benefit from the materials they have donated to government? I am not implying that they should not have donated to government; I am only stressing that they should have first taken proper care of their members before reaching out to the government. After the pandemic First, social distancing will put a tough strain on physical contacts in our relationships. The urge for physical contact will see virtual reality play a more central role. We will also see advanced technology playing a major role in our lifestyles and relationships; we are also looking at how Governments across the globe will approach international relations and what dimension world trade will take knowing very well that there will be a world recession which will trickle down to national economies. Whenever there is a recession, crime rate increases. So, we expect the crime rate of different countries to increase. Undoubtedly, only countries which had hitherto fully equipped her security arms will cope with very few hitches.’ In Nigeria, the federal government will need to fund and adequately re-equip the Police Force and redesign the security architecture to meet the exigencies of the times. Nigeria is still at war with Boko Haram in the North-East. We are yet to completely stop the influx of arms and ammunition from across our borders. We are still battling with bandits and kidnapping in different parts of the country. If we do not prepare very well by improving funding for the Nigeria Police and employing technology to combat the potential upsurge, our security arms may be overwhelmed. Global trade will change significantly and this will affect our economy adversely. Without sounding pessimistic, our economy will take a hit because as we have just seen, crude oil prices have crashed and we all know the Nigerian economy is heavily dependent on crude export. This clearly means revenue will dip and the Federal Government will struggle to meet its financial obligations to creditors, both local and foreign. At some point, unemployment rate, which is bad already will grow worse. Therefore, our leaders must work to fully diversify the economy and introduce economic and social policies that will ameliorate the pain the common man may face. COVID-19 may eventually be a path to building a self-reliant economy. With careful planning and prayer, Nigeria will overcome this season.