With a coronavirus disease infection rate galloping in Nigeria on a daily basis, and deaths inching disquietingly towards the catastrophic, the public and the media have focused almost exclusively on the disease which first broke out in China in December, 2019. Labelled by the World Health Organisation (WHO) as COVID-19, to distinguish it from other forms of coronavirus diseases, it has taken the world by storm and raised a number of other worrisome and tangential issues. The broadcast media now devotes more than a half of their newscast time to the disease, barely leaving room for any other thing, especially politics at a time and season when politics, elections and governance should take more than 90 percent of public attention. The print media unapologetically emblazons news of the virus daily on their front pages. Nothing will threaten the dominance of the virus in the months ahead. The Nigerian economy was of course heading for trouble weeks before COVID-19 burst on the scene, with public attention riveted on the nearly $30bn loan the Muhammadu Buhari presidency had planned to take in order to fund their budget deficit. The public had taken issues with the loans, lambasted the government for its obsessive thirst for and reliance on foreign funds, and marvelled at the inurement of their National Assembly to the pitfalls of unbearable and burdensome loans, not to say their vexatious subservience to the executive arm in the manner they authorised the loan application. Not only did Nigerians worry about the ballooning public debt, they also fear that they had lost their parliament which felt increasingly beholden to the executive than the electorate. It took the brilliant force majeure of COVID-19 to halt the finalisation of the bloated loan deal already approved by the parliament after a superficial debate. Before late February, when Nigeria’s complacency was pricked by the coming of the first index case from Italy, the political sector was buzzing loudly, indeed raucously. The political opposition might have done little but bleated feebly, with the voice of the main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), barely heard above the soft din. But there was still some excitement in the air. However, the voice of the PDP was not mellifluous or consistent, nor did it pack any significant oomph, but they registered their presence in their constant and perfunctory denunciation of all that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) stood for. PDP press releases, whenever they came, often paid more attention to grammar and style than to substance and power. The statements were also sometimes provocative and verbose, and rarely had any impact on the thin-skinned ruling party that mocked their logic and ridiculed the scanty issues they addressed. The statements also seldom caused enough tremors in the ruling party potent enough to arrest the attention of the public or ruffle the feathers of their main rival already ensconced in office and luxuriating in power. Late last year, a gargantuan effort to unseat the APC chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, was garishly executed. The coup, whose authors were self-professed progressives and ostensible future beacons of democracy, miscarried very badly. The politics of the plot to throw off the yoke of the party chairman, not to say the law of it, arrested the interest of Nigerians, whether PDP or APC, or any other party. The legal provisions relied on by the coupists to actualise their plan disturbed the public but kept them enthralled for weeks, with the proponents of the coup scurrying to and fro the federal capital, Abuja, restlessly, feverishly, and petulantly. Then the politics of the coup itself. It was sheer bliss to party faithful, legal aficionados, and media professionals whose gay copies and thunderous blather on the front pages of their newspapers warmed the cockles of many hearts. But just when the coup seemed on the verge of succeeding, and with party leaders adding their moral support to powerful voices agitating against the coupists, defeat was snatched from the jaws of victory. The collapse of the coup was spectacular. But no one expected that weeks or months after that collapse, no more news would be heard about the frenzied plots. Alas, it turned out to be the last flickering move, at least for now. COVID-19 had done the job no party or presidency or political chieftain could do. Now, all governors are preoccupied with tackling what the United States president Donald Trump sarcastically referred to as the Chinese (or Wuhan) virus. Indeed, it is proving more difficult for the governors to tackle the virus than to plan coups against one another or against their chairman. Their lack of fecundity has been badly exposed. Shortly before the disease outbreak, the September and October Ondo and Edo governorship elections sat unchallenged and pristinely on the front burner. In both states, there were a couple of aspirants who made the governors quake in their boots. The Ondo State governor Rotimi Akeredolu had nearly a dozen challengers, a few of whom are not only politically versatile, but also intellectually sound and robust. In Edo, Governor Obaseki, who was numbered among the unrepentant coupists that nearly unhorsed the Edo-born Mr Oshiomhole, had engaged in frenetic politicking to entrench himself and secure a vantage position for the coming polls. More than displayed in Ondo, Mr Obaseki had organised a lot of activities and manoeuvres to wrong-foot and disadvantage his opponents. The result has been varied and uncertain, but he has not been deterred. With COVID-19 edging out every other news and activities from the front pages, whether politics or religion, or whether society or even crime and the economy, Ondo and Edo have suddenly become the addendum, sometimes on the front pages, and sometimes on the inside pages. Both Ondo and Edo governors are in fact in a dilemma how to respond to their opponents, many of whom have since morphed, in the estimation of the governors, from being mere opponents to implacable enemies. In Edo, the governor has demolished his opponent’s buildings, attempted to send some of them, including his party chairman, Mr Oshiomhole, into exile, and has made edicts and laws banning this and that, or indeed anything that remotely connects with his enemies or gives them advantage. The Ondo governor has been less grandiloquent, and seems sometimes fragile and lethargic. But he appears prepared to meet his opponents at any place of their choosing, and is eager to give battle as ardently as he can manage. The two incumbent governors’ valiant political efforts have, however, been rendered pianissimo, despite been saddled with the daunting responsibilities of fighting COVID-19 as well as waging re-election battles against opponents who are single-minded. Even the Buhari presidency, which in the best of times and all through the pre-COVID-19 era had been staid and reclusive in its approach to politics and governance, has on the excuse of fighting the disease shrunk further into gross anonymity and inscrutable silence. A few appointments have no doubt been made, thus giving the impression of an administration still very active, but beyond that they have seemed tremendously pleased that no political challenges have been flung at them either by the opposition or by circumstances. The government is satisfied battling coronavirus. Politics had always seemed to addle them anyway. They would rather fight any other hideous monster than be compelled to respond smartly and adequately to political challenges. The hugest regret belongs to the PDP. It cannot politicise COVID-19, for that most presumptuous of diseases is no respecter of person or party, let alone the sarcastic. The Kano State Works and Infrastructure commissioner who scathingly denounced the president’s late chief of staff, Abba Kyari, after the latter was bumped off by the impudent virus, is himself down with the virus, having hailed from a state in denial over the disease. Are the states fighting the virus smartly and comprehensively? Not at all. The war is hobbled by incompetence, confusion, and years of mediocrity and negligence. The opposition knows all this, but having ruled for 16 years, it knows it cannot be absolved of blame. So there can be no politicisation of anything; after all, some PDP leaders or members of their families have also fallen victim to the virus. The solemnity that has characterised politics in the past few chaotic weeks will, therefore, continue for some time to come. Indeed, how Ondo and Edo governorship aspirants hope to campaign, participate in primaries and fight the elections will remain uppermost in the minds of everybody in the two states, including the relevant electoral agencies. For years, the public had campaigned for electronic voting. Now the country must actively weigh that option, even if the Ondo and Edo polls will for now be exempted. Many other things will change in politics, when its engine begins to rev again, but for now, all will remain quiet on the political front, so quiet that the September, October polls will shock everybody by its sombreness.