 Indigenes of Okuzu-Oba, Idemili South Local Government Area of Anambra State have protested proposed appointment of Rev. Uche Ibeabuchi as representative of Anambra State at the Federal Character Commission (FCC). The cleric’s name was among the list of 38 norminees forwarded to the Senate for confirmation and appointment into the Commission. They said their kinsman was not fit to represent them in view of the criminal charges levied against him, calling for appointment of a competent character to represent the State at the commission. In a statement by the President General Oba Patriotic Union, Stephen Orakwute and Secretary General, Hon. Ebele Nweze, the community accused Ibeabuchi of high-handedess, including his forceful sale of community lands which proceeds he converted to his personal use. The statement partly reads: “We write to protest the proposed appointment of Rev. Uche Ibeabuchi as representative of Anambra State at the Federal Character Commission. “Rev. Uche Ibeabuchi is highhanded, he has forcefully sold community lands and converted proceeds to his personal use. He has exhibited at various times that he lacks the communal interest of the Anambra people.  “Currently pending at the Federal High Court in charge No: FHC/AWK/C2/177/2018 and FHC/AWK/C103/2018 is an indictment of fraud, cultism and criminal conspiracies against the nominee Rev. Uche Ibeabuchi which he is yet to be discharged of. “In view of the criminal charges and his character indictment in the pending matter, it is our collective decision that Rev. Uche Ibeabuchi is not a fit and proper person to represent us. “We therefore oppose his nomination and confirmation and hereby request for the appointment of a competent character to represent the State at the Federal Character Commission.” Reacting, Rev. Uche Ibeabuchi described the allegation as baseless. “My detractors are just being jealous and envious because God has elevated me through President Muhammadu Buhari’s nomination for appointment in Federal Character Commission. “This is home fight. I’m not a land grabber. I have never sold one or supported anyone in selling people’s land, and beating people including women. I’m a peace maker.”