Fourteen parties in Ondo State and three groups have formed a coalition called the Third Force, to present a candidate for the September 10 governorship election. The force, operating under the auspices of ‘Emerging Political Committee’ (EPC), said the Action Democratic Party (ADP) will be used as a platform to present the governorship candidate. EPC state Coordinator Mr. Biyi Poroye, briefing reporters yesterday in Akure, said the mission of the force was to wrest power from the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led government. He said that ADP would be the most grassroots party in the state due the existing structures. Poroye said that the ADP would take advantage of the other means to reach out to the electorate due to the current ban on political gathering. He advised politicians seeking platforms to actualise their programmes for the people, to look in the direction of the ADP. Poroye said: “It is exciting to let you know that after several tough and thorough work and consultation, the committee finally resolved to choose a party from the final three parties. The other parties involved in this process have indicated in the letters received from their leadership. They are expected to dissolve their structures and come under the umbrella of the party of choice. “It’s on this strength I want to announce to you on behalf of the EPC and for the benefit of the entire populace of Ondo State that the party that will wrest power from the old hands, APC and PDP, has just been adopted and named the Third Force. ADP is the new party to watch out for in the coming election. A socio-political group, the Akoko Renewal Group, has hailed the Unity Forum of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for picking Chief Olusola Oke as its consensus aspirant for the party’s primaries. It said the selection of Oke was the right and calculative decision of the forum. A statement by the Secretary of the group, Mr. Olatubosun Awe, said the forum, led by Alhaji Ali Olanusi, considered the interest of Ondo people above personal interest by picking Chief Oke. The group urged other aspirants to support Oke, saying he would be the party’s best candidate. According to the statement, “it is important to commend the leadership of Unity Forum for placing premium on the interest of the people rather than personal ambitions. “The decision of the Unity Forum to choose Oke as the consensus aspirant among several aspirants in the group to contest the APC primary election has revealed the good intentions of the forum for the people of the state. “It is pertinent to admonish other aspirants and chieftains of the Unity Forum to rally support for Chief Oke so that he can win the APC’s governorship primaries and be the candidate of the party.