The Director of  Caleb Group of Schools, Dr. Ola Adebogun, has commended the Executive  Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, for the various measures being adopted to contain the spread of coronavirus pandemic in the state. Dr. Adebogun, who made this remark in a statement at Ikeja, Lagos State, said that  the people  were quite happy  with the government’s proactiveness in managing the pandemic. He noted that in spite of the rising figure in the number of patients in the state due to its cosmopolitan nature, the state so far has the highest single figure of recovery in the country. The educationist described the efforts of Governor Sanwo-Olu and other government functionaries in the state task force against COVID-19 as commendable as they continue to battle against the global pandemic. Dr. Adebogun particularly commended the state government  for taking the lead in due deligence in the intensive and thorough testing. On the state government’s efforts to mitigate the effects of the lockdown on the people, Dr. Adebogun expressed his happiness with the government for investing heavily in the procurement of personal protective equipment and the provision of palliatives to the vulnerable people. He, however, noted that as part of the Caleb Group’s corporate social responsibility, palliatives in form of food items were also distributed to over 3,000 people in the university’s host community (Imota) to cushion the effects of the lockdown, stressing that the Caleb Group would not relent in its efforts at joining hands with the government to bring succour to the people whose good neighbourliness was an indication of an open identification with an emerging success story. The Visitor to the Caleb University, who noted with delight the state government’s fumigation of the nooks and crannies of major public places in the state as part of the safety measures to contain the spread of the pandemic,  also applauded the Sanwo-Olu-led administration for embarking on an aggressive house-to-house and community searching, the commissioning of local production of face masks in large quantities and for localising testing with the opening of sample collection centres across the 20 local government areas of the state, thereby increasing the state’s COVID -19 testing capacity.