The humanitarian arm of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Days Saints, has donated Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) and other medical gears worth $40,000 to the Lagos State government. The handing over of the equipment was done by Church team to officials at the Lagos State Ministry of Transportation Warehouse, Lekki, Lagos, the equipments include hand sanitizers, liquid wash, safety goggles, surgical gowns and masks, shoe covers, hand gloves, face masks, stethoscopes, toilet rolls, buckets, among others Making the presentation, Head, Latter Day Saints Church of Jesus Christ, West Africa, Area 70, Elder Christian Chigbundu pointed out that the Church’s kind gesture was in appreciation of Lagos State govt. and the entire medical team who are working tirelessly in ensuring that the Coronavirus pandemic is contained Adding that the “Church in the past have contributed so much through her charity organization in ensuring that we assist the govt. and that of the society and we will continue to do so”, he said. Chigbundu therefore enjoined Nigerians to observe rules outlined to stay safe from COVID-19, while having faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. “We should have faith in our Lord Jesus Christ. With him, all things are possible. So I believe strongly there is need for prayer as well as faith in our Lord Jesus Christ. Though, it does not end there, we need to also work while obeying the government on laid down rules and tips in the fight of COVID-19. For example, social distancing, regular hand washing, staying at home during the lockdown is of paramount important to be able to win this war,” he said. On why the church engaged in humanitarian service, Elder Chigbundu said: “Doing things in the Lord’s way has always been our standard. The Church is structured and has its own way of reaching the indigents. In other words, the Church still has food items that would be distributed on a later date. This is to ensure that it gets to the right people at the right time.” The church’s Regional Manager, Nigeria, Mr. Charles A. Adebayo, said the items were worth about $40,000. “The donation is made by the humanitarian arm of LDS Charity, which was established 1985 during the Ethiopia famine and since then, stuffs like this have been going on across the world. Before the advent of COVID-19, the church has been impacting on the grassroots through other means. For example, renovating schools, refurbishing hospitals building boreholes, providing medical equipment, eye glasses, resuscitation of infants and so on. It has always been our core duty and we will continue with it even after COVID-19.” Receiving the equipment on behalf of Lagos State government, Mr. Jide Razak, who is in charge of the warehouse commended Latter Day Saints Church for their kind gesture adding that the fight against the pandemic is not a thing that government can fight alone.