AFRICA may suffer huge devastating economic impact from the ravaging coronavirus, some thought leaders have said. Speaking at a webinar on ‘COVID-19 Economic Threat: The impact on African Industries,’ participants at the session said the continent stands the risk of suffering dire economic consequences post COVID-19 if nothing is done to address the drift. Among the lead speakers at the event organised by FIN Magazine, include the onetime Minister of Industry, Chief Onikepo Akande, Minister of Finance, Planning and Economy, Equatorial Guinea, Ceasar Abogo, Commissioner of Trade and Industry, African Union, Albert Muchanga among other experts. Firing the first salvo, former Executive Director, Small and Medium Enterprise, Bank of Industry, Bank of Industry, Waheed Olagunju, who represented Chief Akande said there is no way many African countries can meet their debt obligations as well as fight the pandemic, adding that: “It is in the self-interest of the entire universe to ensure that nobody is left behind, so Africa should not be seen as a weakling; if the challenges were not there we would have been able to honour our obligations. But this is an emergency and like somebody said western countries can print currencies but African cannot. So in the interest of humanity, let’s ensure that the whole world is healed, including Africa.” Echoing similar sentiments, Abogo said the debate on debt forgiveness cannot be avoided. “I think as we have seen some move in the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank towards that direction but we have to be clear. When we take the Millennium Development Goals from 2002 to 2015, that was the goals that the less developed countries were supposed to achieve, now we have the Sustainable Development Goals; this is a global aspiration for all of us, it is not only for Africa, or Asia, or Europe, it is for mankind. So by 2030 we want our poverty rate to be less than 50 per cent.” On his part, Muchanga believes that the crisis before Africans raises a number of issues. The first issue he believes is the need to protect lives. “A lot of lives are at stake all over the world. We have to save lives and livelihood. People need to survive.” “We need to move away as a matter of deliberate strategy. When you look at some of the countries dependent on export commodities, they are in very serious problems because of the crisis. The only commodity which is doing very well is gold because a lot of people are moving towards gold. At the level of the African Union our keyword is structural transformation and resilience. “With regard to structural transformation, the best is already very good, when one looks at the statistics on the Intra African Trade 42 per cent of the intra African trade is made up of manufactured goods and with the establishment of the African Continental Free Trade Area, we would like to build on that so right now work is on the way involving ourselves and the United Nations Industrial Development Organisation, UNIDO, to finalised by November this year a mapping exercise to cover the entire African continent so that we can answer one of the issues we have raised. Speaking on the economic issues playing out now in Africa, Abogo who believes the pandemic is testing the region’s collective and individual resilience, economic, politic and social resilience said in Equatorial Guinea, the country is trying to deal with the pandemic as a threat but also as a source of opportunities.