 A middle-aged woman on Monday lost her life, while four others sustained varying degrees of injury in a fatal multiple accident at Obosi road, Nkpor Anambra State. The accident which occurred around 11.51am, involved nine persons and seven vehicles, including an articulated truck conveying cooking gas, a tricycle and five other vehicles. The Nation gathered that the truck was descending a hill when it suddenly lost control following brake failure and rammed into the six vehicles. An eye witness said the woman who was in the tricycle died instantly while the injured were taken to the hospital for treatment. The State Sector Public Education Officer, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Pascal Anigbo, confirmed the incident. He said, “A multiple Road Traffic Crash involving Seven (7) vehicles was recorded today Monday 11 May, 2020 at Obosi-Nkpor road near Elohim Oil Project Nig. Ltd.
“The vehicles involved included a Mack with registration number AKD246XV, Mitsubishi Diana with registration number GDD259ZE, Toyota Pickup registration number NEN402ZD. “Others were a Mercedes Benz Truck with no visible registration number, Tricycle without registration number, Toyota Camry without registration number, and a Scania Truck also without registration number. “Four male adults sustained varying degrees of injury and the only female victim was confirmed dead by doctors at Boromeo Hospital, Onitsha, where the injured victims were also rushed to by FRSC rescue team from Upper Iweka Outpost. “Meanwhile traffic control and clearing of obstruction (by the FRSC heavy duty tow truck) is ongoing. The Fire Service are also on ground to avert any fire outbreak. “At about the same time, another Road Traffic Crash involving a TATA truck with registration number LND635XM was reported to have occurred at Umuoji Roundabout. “The brakes of the truck which was conveying empty bottles/crates of Hero beer failed and in an attempt to prevent the vehicle from ramming into other vehicles in traffic, the driver tried maneuvering but the truck fell discharging the empty bottles on the road. “There was no casualty and the vehicle has been pulled up by a private tow truck. “The Sector Commander Federal Road Safety Corps Anambra, CC Andrew A. Kumapayi condole with the family of the dead and wishes the injured victims quick recovery. “He admonishes vehicle owners and drivers to always ensure that their vehicles are properly serviced, especially the brakes, before embarking on any trip. “He also reminds motorists that the rainy season is here, where the grounds are mostly slippery. Vehicles must have good tyres and good brakes to prevent avoidable road traffic Crashes.”