 Two personalities with more than a passing relationship with the late board member of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) and Enugu FA Chairman Barrister Chidi Ofor Okenwa who passed away on Tuesday have described him as an exceptional good man that would be difficult to replace. Okenwa’s protégée and junior international Chidera Eze said he lost a mentor who was also a guardian to many aspiring footballers in the South Eastern part of Nigeria. “Chief Okenwa was a man loved by so many youths and he was indeed a blessing to our generation,” explained Eze. “He was a man with a good heart; he cared for my welfare and was part of my progress.” Yet Sokoto Football Association Chairman Mohammed Nasir Saidu who was Okenwa’s Vice Chairman on the board of Nigeria National League (NNL) was even forthcoming with his eulogies: “We had a bond of friendship, brotherliness and trust that was forged between the ‘Danfulani’ (as some of his colleagues fondly called him) and the ‘Igbo man from the Caliphate’ (as he fondly referred to me) because of the strong links I have with His Excellency Rt. Hon Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, the Executive Governor of Enugu State where Chidi comes from. “As the Chairman of Enugu State Football Association, he worked tirelessly at ensuring it emerges as one of the best FAs when it comes to age-grade football development (not just competition). “The Chidi Ofor I knew was not only intelligent, loyal, meticulous and visionary but honest, straight forward, a team player and a peacemaker.” Saidu, who heads the Budget & Research Office at the National Assembly, said the late Okenwa endeared himself to so many people for his forthrightness and it was even at his instance that he thanked the NFF President Amaju Pinnick for defraying part of his bill when he was hospitalised in April. He added: “It was shocking to think that his birthday was just on the 24th of April and the inevitable came 11 days later on the 5th of May 2020. “But we need to necessarily draw from our value systems and inculcate late Barr. Chidi Ofor’s fearlessness, stubbornness and relentless tenacity in the pursuit of what he believed were right and fair; a good man had indeed left us.”