Mr. Taiwo Afolabi’s name is not new on the social radar. Most especially, on the shipping business in Nigeria. He is one of Nigeria’s most successful shipping magnates in the country. He didn’t just attain that position by chance but with luck, dedication, hard work, and prayers. Afolabi was able to climb the ladder of success within a short while. Apart from the shipping business, the SIFAX boss has his hands on many pies, which include oil and gas, real estate, agriculture, among others. Afolabi is not just a billionaire, he is also blessed with a kind heart. He sees wealth as God-given and he is always at will to help the needy. On April 29, the highly enterprising, hardworking, and technically endowed business mogul added another year to his age and celebrated his 58th birthday on a lowkey. For Afolabi, birthdays are moments to reflect redolent memories. It’s a moment to count your days and also give thanks to the creator most especially at a time when the high and mighty are being taken by grim reapers. At a point, Afolabi was faced with Nigeria’s dwindling business climate which comes with a heavy typhoon and tsunami. Like a consistent and skilled businessman, he was able to weather the storm, navigating through the waters. Consequently, he was one of the few businessmen who was issued a license to build a refinery in Nigeria. He was said to have secured several hectares of land around Snake Island, Lagos to build a refinery that is expected to produce at least, 120, 000 barrels per day. A source also told Society Rendezvous that his hospitality outfit seems to be his headache at the moment. Afolabi’s much-talked-about hospitality outfit is a seven-story, 251 rooms state-of-the-art edifice named Marriott Hotel. Situated on 7,000 Square meters landmass inside Oba Akinjobi, GRA, Ikeja, Lagos, the yet-to-be-completed hospitality outfit is currently one of his headaches in business. “He is a man who has never failed in any of his endeavours, he has vowed to make this dream come true no matter how difficult the task ahead is. All his abandoned projects as we speak are currently receiving life. Immediately after the pandemic, work would begin with full force. He is working for the completion before his next birthday. He is working assiduously to achieve that projection,” a source told Society Rendezvous.