This is not the best of times in Anambra State as coronavirus (COVID-19) has ruptured social life. Leisure providers no longer make brisk businesses, writes EMMA ELEKWA  As the world reels under the pangs of coronavirus crisis, which has locked down businesses and social life in many countries, Nigeria too is not spared. The crisis has continued to take its toll on virtually every sector. One obvious area the impact has largely been felt is the economic sector, with commercial activities in all the cities across the country gradually crumbling due to the pandemic. What seems to be worsening the effect of the pandemic is the restriction of movement declared by the Federal Government, particularly in the night. The 8:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. curfew has not only affected commercial activities across states, it has also adversely affected night life in major cities. In Anambra State, for example, where residents are used to staying out late at nights to have fun, particularly after the inauguration of “lightening up Anambra project” by Governor Willie Obiano-led administration, it has not been easy. Before the curfew, night life and businesses blossomed as owners of night clubs, hotels, eateries and beer parlours and other entertainment centres had a field day, making brisk businesses in almost every corner of the state. Most of the major cities in the state, including Awka, the capital, Onitsha, Nnewi, Ekwulobia, among others, had witnessed serious commercial activities with night sessions being the peak period. Sadly, the ever-busy cities have become shadows of themselves following the government’s directives on restriction of movement as part of the measures towards containing the COVID-19 pandemic. Some of the residents, who spoke with The Nation lamented that the development has crippled their businesses as they were forced to close shops at a time they referred to as their peak period. They said the situation had also led to downsizing of workers in those places. They appealed to the Federal and state governments to come up with economic stimulus package to assist them in cushioning the effects of the continued containment measures at the same time make their contributions to the state’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Mr. Author Mbuba, whose wife operates a relaxation joint in Onitsha, appealed to the government to consider special stimulus package for small-scale business owners to encourage them to remain in business. “The people in the entertainment industry are the worst hit. If you buy meat and did not finish selling it, with this epileptic power supply we have here, all the perishables will spoil the next day and you keep incurring debts. People are no longer coming due to the curfew. Some who would have relaxed with about three bottles rarely come in again to take even a bottle,” he decried. Mr. Ndubuisi Eze, who operates a palm wine bar, said it has not been easy from sit-at-home to lockdown and now curfew. He said it was rather painful contemplating laying off some members of staff who might not have what to eat or how to sustain themselves. “Nwoke Udi no longer makes sales like before. Ninety per cent of us are highly hit by the pandemic. But if you think of reducing the strength of members of your staff, you also consider the impact of the workers who may not have any other means of livelihood. Honestly, it has affected everybody in the world,” he said. Mr. Oliver Ugwuowa, a hotelier, recalled how he smiled to the bank before this period, while Jude Okoye, a night club operator, described what he had lost to the pandemic as unquantifiable. They prayed God to take away the pandemic so that the society would bounce back to normalcy. Two Disk Jockies, Obinna Okoko Dj Slam and Onyebuchi Ofora Dj Buchiano, said the situation had crippled their businesses as they no longer get to play in night parties and relaxation joints. “COVID-19 has affected us badly. No party, no club, nobody calls DJs now.  We’ve not been going to events, including traditional marriages and wedding ceremonies for some time. We pray this whole thing should be a thing of the past,” they said. Lady Constance Ukwuoma, a beer parlour operator, regretted that she no longer made enough sales to pay her bills. “This COVID-19 pandemic is really affecting me. I am running a whole lot of bills, owing so many people, including the woman that brings stuffs for me. I don’t even have money to feed my children. Once it’s 7:00 p.m., everybody will start packing as if there is going to be a war.” A commercial sex worker that preferred not to be named also lamented that the curfew had closed her source of livelihood. Food vendors, popularly called mama put, are not left out in the dilemma as they close early enough to avoid being arrested by security personnel. One of them, Ukamaka Nwodo, said it had become very difficult to feed her family. She said: “This COVID-19 and the attendant curfew are really affecting my business because I don’t cook anymore. I’m finding it very difficult to take care of my needs and that of my family since it’s the only business I do for now. We normally start from 7:00 p.m. till 12 midnight. But now, I no longer cook because of the curfew.” Mrs. Rose Nwazota, a pharmacist, also lamented the toll the curfew was taking on her business as the curfew time fell within their peak period when she makes huge sales. “We usually sell much more from 7:30 p.m., but these days, we close early because of the curfew. So, the business is no longer lucrative as before,” she said. A tricycle operator, Mr. Samuel Nwankwo, said they were compelled to close early due to the situation. “The curfew is affecting us tricycle drivers seriously because we have to close early. We normally make more money at night,” he lamented. Meanwhile, the Police Command said a total of 65 people have been arrested for violation of curfew in various parts of state. The Command’s spokesperson, Haruna Mohammed, in a statement, said 24 were arrested at Umunze, 15 in Onitsha and 20 in Nnewi Area Command. He said all the cases were under investigation after which suspects would be charged to court for prosecution. “Between 8/5/2020 and 13/5/2020, the command had arrested 65 suspects who violated the curfew on COVID-19 pandemic in Anambra State. Of the suspects, 24 were arrested at Umunze, 15 in Onitsha and 20 in Nnewi Area Command. Fifteen vehicles were also impounded. In Umuchu, a Toyota Hummer bus with registration number JXL 76 YF conveying 19 young men from the North and travelling to Asaba, Delta State was intercepted and turned back. “In Awka, six suspects were also arrested on the 12/5/2020 at Big Ballers Lounge, Abakaliki Street, Awka. The suspects are Nwoye Loveth,’f’, Anigbogu Michael ‘m’, Michael Ogbonna,’m’, Eric Nwafor, Ani Blessing’f’and Mirabel Ishewu ‘f’. The command is determined to enforce the curfew order to the letter and will therefore not hesitate to arrest and prosecute any individual or group of people found violating the government order. “In view of the foregoing, the Commissioner of Police, John Abang, solicits the co-operation and understanding of the public by adhering strictly to government directive which was aimed at containing the spread of coronavirus which has become a global pandemic.”