It used to be appealing. The Abule Egba Fountain built some years back has become a shadow of itself. The fountain and other amenities in the axis are begging for the government’s attention, writes DAMOLA KOLA-DARE Like a sick rose in need of a plentiful dose of patina, the garden, not far from the Abule Egba flyover, is currently crying for attention after apparently being abandoned. Looking ashen and nondescript, it now comes across as a shadow of its former self. The fountain has dried up, the lights are non-existent, the flowers have paled into insignificance, and the verdant grasses now look parched. It is no longer a beauty to behold! The garden, which was constructed during the previous administration of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode needs a fresh of breath air as it looks run down and abandoned. Gardens are supposed to be fascinating and attractive relaxation centres and spots for sightseeing and nonstop fun. The same cannot be said of the Abule Egba garden which has lost its allure and charm. It does not register as a garden for a first timer as it is bare and soulless. When The Nation visited the place at the weekend, it was locked. There was no sign of activity. Seen, were old pipes and tyres dotting the interior with the dust settling on the small building in the enclosure. It brought back memories of abandoned monuments in the country and the recurrent decimal of ‘poor maintenance culture’ that continues to be an albatross.  LASPARK and its mandate The Lagos State Parks and Gardens Agency(LASPARK) is responsible to make Lagos ‘healthier and greener’ by creating and maintaining functional parks and garden as well as recreational centres in line with international best practices and standards. Created in 2012 through the enactment of Lagos State Parks and Gardens Agency Law No. 13, 2011, the agency was given the assignment of the greening initiative of the state government, a task previously handled by the Conservation and Ecology Department of the Ministry of the Environment. The agency is also saddled with the responsibility of mitigating the effects of climate change, ensuring environmental sustainability and creating an aesthetically pleasing Lagos as a model of African megacity.  ‘We have not abandoned garden’ In a chat with The Nation, the General Manager, LASPARK, Mrs. Adetoun Ibilola Popoola stated that the garden was not abandoned by the government, noting that a horticulturist was assigned to take care of the place. She added that the governor directed that the list of all non-functional fountains be compiled for prompt attention. She gave the assurance that ‘within the shortest possible time’; the garden would reclaim its glory. “We have a horticulturist assigned to the place. As regards lighting, we will get the attention of the electricity board to fix it. Then, the grasses need two weeks of rain to be green again. Once we fix the fountain and every other thing, the place will come alive again. We have not abandoned the garden. Unfortunately, the last three months have been terrible for us because our boreholes dried up and access to water was difficult. We should not even use clean water which people drink. Nonetheless, within the shortest possible time, we will get everything fixed,” she noted. The LASPARK official also said there are some gardens they handed over to local government areas, but they collaborate with the councils to take care of such gardens.  Ijaiye Ojokoro,  Abule Egba, Oko Oba and filthy environs When this reporter visited Abule Egba, Ojokoro, Oko-Oba, Olaniyi axis, some streets in those areas were an eyesore. Dirt littered everywhere–the gutters were at the mercy of garbage and clogged up with filth. From left, right and centre, akin to putrid eggs, stench oozing from canals and drainage systems enveloped the air. Right from Owode Street, a first timer is ushered in with dirt of varying degrees littering the road–polythene bags, takeaway packs, sachet water nylons, plastic bottles, cellophane bags and the likes. Then, through Olaniyi Road to Fadehan Street, Temple Road, Powerline axis, it gets even worse as puddles and stinking stagnant water dot some parts of the road with flies hovering over them. Some sections of the dusty, untarred Temple Road are overgrown by weed and stubborn shrubs. That the drainage in front of the Primary Health Centre, Isokan, is crammed with filth remains a cause of concern and worry. It was an admixture of disgust, disapproval and disappointment from residents who spoke to The Nation. According to a shop owner, Mrs. Ruka Olusanya, who sells paints and building materials, officials in charge of sanitation have stopped coming to Temple Road, hence the dirt littering the whole place. “As far as I know, officials who are to ensure that this place is clean have stopped coming here. We see them drive through this road with a truck, but they never stopped by to pick waste materials. I remember during the last election, they came and were performing their duties, but suddenly they disappeared. We don’t know why they have abandoned this place,” she said. Another resident who identified himself as Solomon Eze revealed that though it is disgusting seeing garbage everywhere on the road, some residents contribute to the mess by dumping refuse anywhere they deem fit. He said: “I think it is very bad seeing dirt on the road. Some residents also contribute to it. They don’t dispose of their waste properly. They just dump it anywhere they see, and the wind also does not help matters, it blows them far and near.” For a corps member, Sanusi Oyindamola, streets should maintain good hygiene in this era of the deadly Coronavirus now ravaging the world. She urged health workers to be proactive and monitor areas not exhibiting proper hygiene while meting out the required punishment on them. “Merely seeing the streets littered with garbage is not appealing at all. And now the noise about Coronavirus has the crescendo. Almost everybody, even down to the grassroots now knows about it one way or another. It is time residents started practising proper hygiene to avoid a major outbreak here. Health workers should also monitor areas effectively and punish those who deface the environment with waste.”  LAWMA vows to punish environmental offenders The Lagos State Waste Management Authority (LAWMA) early this year vowed to start a campaign tagged: “Hall of Fame and Wall of Shame” to recognise efforts of people given to environmental cleanliness while ”naming and shaming” offenders who engage in reckless waste disposal. According to the Waste Management body, it could no longer condone indiscriminate waste disposal in the state and as such, offenders would be made to carry out community service while also exposing them using the agency’s social media handles and other public communication platforms. It warned that offenders would not be spared as anyone caught dumping waste recklessly using darkness as a cover would be made to pay for such misdeed.  Local government chairman speaks According to the Chairman, Ojokoro Local Council Development Area, Mr. Hammed Idowu Tijani, the council does not condone the environmental mess. He stated that trucks have been mandated to move around that axis weekly to make sure all streets are rid of garbage. He, however, assured that machinery would be put in motion to make sure the affected streets are thoroughly cleaned. “We don’t allow streets to be messed up in this local government because we have designated trucks that move around weekly to collect garbage. We used to have 19 black spots here, but with efforts, we have put an end to them. Now that our attention has been drawn to the situation, we would make sure we monitor those places regularly. I will call the attention of the environmental officer,” he noted in a chat with The Nation. The local government chairman refuted claims that the Abule Egba Garden was handed over to the Ojokoro Local Government Area for maintenance. He said: “It is the duty of LASPARK to maintain parks and gardens and not us at the local government area. The garden has not been handed over to us. Also, at no point in time was it handed over to us for maintenance.”