A group of professionals in Nigeria, under the aegis of Young Nigerian Professionals have commended President Muhammadu Buhari for the nomination of 42 thoroughbred career diplomats as Ambassadors-designate. It described them as “round pegs, fit in round holes,” and “truly deserving.” The forum, in a statement signed by its Chairman, Charles Folayan, said it was elated by the choice of nominees, some of whom the professionals had interacted with at Nigerian Missions abroad and found to be diligent, hard working and patriotic. According to Folayan, the forum is confident of the prospective Ambassadors’ capacities to deliver on Buhari’s policies at the global arena whenever they are posted after clearance by the Senate. “We can affirm that this list was carefully put together by the President in line with his foreign policy objectives. “The nominees are seasoned diplomats, who have served in various countries with distinction; they are good men and women with the highest sense of commitment and responsibility. “Wherever they have served, they were the darling of the Nigerian communities and their host officials,” the group noted. “Of particular interest is I. A. Yusuf, a nominee from Kogi State with whom the forum had interacted at more than one Nigerian Mission abroad. We know him for his exemplary character, integrity and his positive disposition towards Nigerians in his host countries, especially the students and professionals. He offers help with ease, to anyone who demands help. “In all our encounters, we noted that when Yusuf gives his word, he keeps it; he has an unflinching penchant for timeliness; and importantly he demands diligence and love for Nigeria from associates and those he works with, that whatever is to be done must be done in the national interest and must be done right. “We believe that the Ambassadors-designate will bring to Nigeria, the benefits of their abundant network of relationships across the world.” The group encouraged the Ambassadorial nominees to remain steadfast to the values that saw them rise to where they are. It asked them to keep their eyes on the ball to justify the confidence reposed on them by President Muhammadu Buhari.