Shareholders of Central Securities Clearing System (CSCS) Plc at the weekend approved the payment of N4.3 billion as cash dividends for the 2019 business year. At the 26th annual general meeting (AGM) held by proxy at the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) Event Centre in Lagos, shareholders approved 22.8 per cent increase in cash payouts. Shareholders will receive 86 kobo dividend per share for the 2019 business year as against 70 kobo per share or N3.5 billion paid for the 2018 business year. Chairman, Central Securities Clearing System (CSCS) Plc, Mr. Oscar Onyema, said the 2019 performance of the company showed its resilience amidst market volatility and waning transaction volumes during the year. “This set of results and impressive returns to shareholders are commendable, particularly when put in the perspective of the relatively weak liquidity in the market in 2019. This feat reflects the tenacity of the management in diversifying the business and commitment to cost efficiency. Whilst transaction fees waned, it is satisfying that CSCS sustained both top and bottom-line growths, with revenue and profit before tax of N9.1 billion and N6.3 billion respectively,” Onyema said. Managing Director, Central Securities Clearing System (CSCS) Plc , Mr. Haruna Jalo-Waziri said the company remains committed to earnings growth and cost efficiency philosophies as it continues to drive its ultimate objective of creating superior value for shareholders and enhancing market efficiencies. “I am pleased with the 165 per cent growth in non-core earnings, reflecting our tenacity towards diversifying the business. More importantly, the overall performance reflects the pay-off of our painstaking investment in people and new technologies, as we strengthen our capacity to serve our participants better and meet anticipatory need of the market,” Jalo-Waziri said. According to him, notwithstanding the inflationary environment, the company closed 2019 with 31.5 per cent cost-to-income ratio, demonstrating continuous improvement in cost efficiency. He noted that as the company delivers on its strategic initiatives aimed at enhancing the post-trade segment of the Nigerian capital market, it remains upbeat on its earnings outlook with expectations of delivering superior returns to shareholder over the long term. According to him, CSCS will continue to strengthen its partnership with all market stakeholders towards deepening the market for mutual growth. “In 2019, we seamlessly delivered on our core responsibilities of safe depository, clearing and settlement of capital market transactions, but these do not excite us, as we are not in business for these table stakes, which we consider to be routine. We have greater and audacious ambitions of partnering with our stakeholders in realizing the huge potentials of the Nigerian capital market through innovations. I am pleased that we are laying solid foundations for creating value and impactful innovations for the Nigerian market, even as we reckon the odds,” Jalo-Waziri said. Speaking on the Coronavirus pandemic, Jalo-Waziri noted that the company had activated its business continuity plan requiring staff to work from home well ahead of the Federal Government’s lockdown in Lagos, Ogun and Abuja. “I am happy to report that we continue to seamlessly serve the market remotely, extracting the benefits of our proactive investments in new technologies and people. Whilst operating remotely over the past eight weeks, we continue to record 99.99 per cent uptime across all our channels, with a resounding commitment to efficiently support all primary and secondary market transactions through this challenging time, and always,” Jalo-Waziri said.