Those who know Kenny Chukwuma, Managing Partner and Head of International Law, Ken and Kent Lawyers, Abuja, say he is a man of beautiful ideas. This, undoubtedly, is not fulsome praise, because he is admired for his brains and gut. Indeed, his wizardry as a lawyer beggars description, and he is fast becoming a shining star in the nation’s legal firmament. When you watch him in action, you will be enthralled by his articulation, Chukwuma, who is endowed with great poise and infectious charm, understands the importance of global citizenship and believes that as the world is becoming a global market, there is need for Africans, especially Nigerians to enjoy the freedom of traveling to different parts of the world for business, tourism and to explore international markets for foreign investments without hindrances like visas and travel permits. His chamber was approved to represent the citizenship by Investment programme for the Caribbean Island of Grenada, which is a sovereign island in the West Indies and a member of the Commonwealth of Nations and the Caribbean Community (CARICOM). Most importantly, it is the only Caribbean country whose citizens can apply to live, work, and invest in the USA under the Investor Treaty US E-2 Visa. Speaking with Society Rendezvous, he said since it had become expedient for Nigerians to seek dual citizenship / second passports from certain countries to benefit from Visa-free travels and gain the right to live, work and invest in other continents around the world, he had assisted clients applying for Grenada Citizenship through their Citizenship by Investment program backed by the Grenada Citizenship by Investment Act 2013, Act No 15. According to him, the application process usually takes around 120 days and there are no requirements for residency in Grenada, interviews, or language tests. The well-traveled and handsome lawyer holds a Master’s degree in International Business Law from London, United Kingdom, where he lived and worked for almost two decades before returning to Nigeria in 2013 to be enrolled as Barrister and Solicitor of the Supreme Court of Nigeria. He has a decade of experience in the area of Immigration Law and provides strategic advisory services to individuals and businesses operating in the ECOWAS and European Union regional markets.