The few people still working in Nigeria now are tax collectors, lawyers, armed robbers, kidnappers, assemblymen and women …. And they are happy on their jobs mainly because they are making others miserable. I am going to speak from many sides of my mouth today. The first May Day! article was written many years ago. Today, I am glad to be able to add a second installment, a tribute to all workers on Workers’ Day. I must warn you that in raising it to the power of two, it is doubly potent and even bitter, considering the many sides of my mouth involved. Jerome K. Jerome, the English writer said, ‘I like work; it fascinates me; I can sit and look at it for hours.’ Too true. I find I stare at my computer for hours before I can put in a word for you. Honest. When I read Oscar Wilde’s statement that ‘some people will do anything for money, including work’, I also nodded in agreement. Obviously, I am not one of those. For me, work is what I do to justify the air I take in. So, you see, me and them are not in the same category, like Fela Anikulapo-Kuti sang. However, as H. L. Mencken said, ‘I go on working for the same reason that a hen goes on laying eggs.’ I think he means that, one, laying eggs is habitual for the hen – she can’t help it; two, there will be a hue and cry if she fails to produce those eggs; and three, her body will betray her were she to fail to produce. Am I not glad I’m not a hen right now! Today, dear reader, we are greeting all workers in the world, great or small, including the hens that lay the golden eggs. Oh yes, reader, golden eggs are now being laid in Nigeria. Just check the illegal golden fields in Zamfara or Ondo sates or other states where they are and you’ll know. Even some Chinese know about it; they caught some fellas there recently. You know what work is, don’t you? It’s that bit of labour you undertake in order to get something done so that something can enter your mouth as a result of something that you do so that something can… You get the drift, don’t you? Peter Dunne, an American humorist said, ‘Work is work if you’re paid to do it, and it is pleasure if you pay to be allowed to do it.’ The end result of work of course is productivity, which in turn attracts remunerations whether you’re paid or you pay. Don’t get me wrong. I love work. I love the pay-end of work, you know, the remunerations end. It’s the middle part of it that gives me problems, you know, that part that says ‘if you mix labour + sweat + rolling up your sleeves + getting off your bum, you might get results’ … yeah, well, that’s the part I don’t so much like. That’s the part that makes the hen cluck-snarl, ‘you think the egg just pops out? Come on!’ For some reason, people do not seem to like their work. That reminds me of a joke about a man who was fed up with his work and decided to do something about it. So, he went to a bar and put his question in the air. ‘Is there anyone here who does not like his work?’ Everyone in the bar raised their hand, including the barman. ‘It’s called Everybody!’, they chorused to him. Abe Lincoln, the American president said, ‘My father taught me to work; he did not teach me to love it’. Like the hen, I do not like my work either but I do it. Today, we greet Nigerian workers. Unfortunately, Nigeria is one of the countries in the world with one of the most unsatisfactory work environments. Workers’ remunerations are so low they disappear too quickly into the market. The new minimum wage of N30,000 has just been signed into law but I’m not too sure how much comfort that will bring to many families considering many factors. To start with, there is inflation. Then there is the fact that this monthly minimum wage is going to struggle with the other maximum wages such as National Assembly men’s (and women’s) monthly wages of N39m in the same market. Do you seriously think this is a fair fight? There is something very seriously wrong with our wage system in Nigeria which allows this huge disparity. No economy can expect to grow if this stands. The average Nigerian worker is the end loser in this very unfair fight. Then, there is the matter of the worker’s security. The worker is not only not valued; he/she is practically unprotected. Very few workers in high-end-dangerous jobs such as electricity, mining, painting, drilling, food swallowing (that’s me), etc., are insured by their employers. Many work concerns are not bothered about the safety of their employees unless they are forcefully reminded. I suspect though that many Nigerians are too busy being content with the illegal monies they make from their jobs to truly appreciate their precarious positions. Altogether, the Nigerian worker has a bad deal from the government’s inability to regulate wages in line with the factors that determine work remuneration such as the nature of the work, the productivity, the power of the economy to carry burdens, or the quality of the worker. It does not make sense that elected officials in the land should get (not earn) as much as N39m for sitting for some days in the month while a worker exposed to the vagaries of life gets only a paltry sum. It is important that the economy be made to grow so that the burden of inflation can be less cumbersome on the worker. Having said that, I have a few bones to pick with Nigerian workers. If truth be told, many Nigerians no longer do their work. Period. Teachers do not teach as they should. Civil servants do not serve as they should. Engineers are not engineering our roads or bridges. Health workers are not doing enough. The few people still working in Nigeria now are tax collectors, lawyers, armed robbers, kidnappers, assemblymen and women …. And they are happy on their jobs mainly because they are making others miserable. When other Nigerians work, you can be sure it is because they are getting an illegal fee somewhere. No one really values their job again in this land. Yet, should those jobs be touched, heaven and hell will be turned over to get them back. Have you noticed the spike in insecurity again in some areas especially? Yeah, the kidnappers are back after a small hiatus. I think many of these kidnappers are under the illusion that seizing people and making their families buy them back, kind of like holding private slave auctions, is work. I think it is all a fallout of our political market economy: make money at the people’s expense, and live like … politicians. We have reached rock bottom all right. Work is that thing you do that brings in a legitimate income which enriches you. Illegal proceeds from our jobs do not count; neither do proceeds from kidnapping. Those never ever end well. It is the work experience that enriches and builds us. We should enjoy that more than the accruements from it. Don Herold, another American humorist said ‘Work is the greatest thing in the world, so we should always save some of it for tomorrow’. Honestly, I don’t know what he is talking about there, but, reader, we should know that work is the greatest thing that ennobles the soul. Legitimate work should be respected. 