Some hawkers of locally made face masks in Enugu have expressed joy over high patronage following the partial lifting of lockdown in the state. Some hawkers, who spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday in Enugu, said that they were making profits through the sale of locally-made face masks. They said it was an opportunity for them to make profit as it had been mandated by the government for everyone to wear masks to combat the spread of Coronavirus in the state. Mr Emma Nchedo, a face mask hawker at Agbani Road said that the compulsory wearing of face masks had made him to join the business. Another hawker at Ogbete Market entrance, Mr Joseph Ude, said he made N2, 500 profit only on May 4, following the partial lifting of lockdown and compulsory use of face masks in the state. Ude said his aunt, a tailor had created jobs for him and others by sewing the locally made facemasks in large quantities. “I am happy that I have been engaged with this business due to Coronavirus. I sell two different types of facemask, the double and single layers made with Ankara and other plain materials. “For the double layer, which is ticker goes for N150 per one while the single layer type goes for N100 per one,” he said. Mr Chukwudi Ekeh, another hawker at Mayor bus-stop added that he was into hawking of handkerchiefs and towels but decided to switch over to face mask business since the lockdown. “Since the lockdown, I have been in serious financial difficulty but when I saw people wearing face masks, I decided to join in selling it. “This is because many tailors are now into sewing them especially for people like us, who can hawk on the streets to buy and make money from it. “Before the partial lifting of the lockdown, I usually take the masks to foodstuffs markets, which are the only markets allowed to open in the state,” Ekeh said. However, a resident of Uwani, Miss Joy Ibezim said that she was not feeling comfortable wearing a face mask, adding that she had to wear it to comply with government directive to curb the virus. NAN reports that face masks are sold in malls, supermarkets and major streets in the state capital. (NAN)