Loyalty is indeed sweet, its grand opulence and splendor soothe the heart, and when blue blood flows in the veins, royalty becomes of large essence. For Oba Saheed Ademola Elegushi, the Elegushi of Ikate Land, Eti-Osa, Lagos, royalty is inborn. For those who knew of his formative years, they will attest to the talks that he was touted to be the child that will uplift the name of his family. If royalty needed a definition, Oba Elegushi is a clear definition. His gait, composure, suave nature, dandy lifestyle, great communication skills, and of all his love for people stand him out in the leagues of traditional rulers in the country. He is one of the few personalities that everybody wants to be around. Apart from his cool, calm and collected demeanor that draws many people to him, he has managed to stay off controversies or generate negative media attention. Any time his name is mentioned on any mainstream media platform, sure know it’s for a progressive and productive reason. If you ride a horse in the belly of the stylish youthful monarch, the horse would have a smooth ride. His mouth is filled with praise and his heart filled with joy as April marks a significant day in his life. On April 10, he celebrated his birthday. Also on April 27th, he marked his 10th coronation anniversary as the paramount ruler of Ikate land. For such a wonderful feat, many had thought the king would have called praise singers to sing his praise to high heavens and as well roll out drums to create a bubbling atmosphere but the king celebrated with no official gathering. A source said; “If not for the COVID-19 virus, many of his admirers would have celebrated him in grand style with a loud celebration. They would have slaughtered several cows and involved the best of caterers to prepare high-cost meals followed with an endless supply of a choice of drinks. Oba Elegushi will not because of his interest put the lives of those who will celebrate him at risk. He chooses to have any celebration after the whole pandemic is over.”