 The Organised Private sector has expressed satisfaction over the appointment of Hajiya Muheeba Dankaka as the Chairperson of the board of the Federal Character Commission (FCC). In separate letters addressed to President Muhammadu Buhari, the Federation of West African Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FEWACCI) and Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce Industry Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA) described it as significant gesture towards the Organised Private Sector in Nigeria and the West African sub-region at large. The letter, which was signed by its Chief Executive Officer, Aminou Akadiri on behalf of its President, Hajiya Saratu Iya Aliyu, added that the regional body’s interactions with Hajiya Dankaka, through the Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce Industry Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA) have always been wholesome and productive and “we can attest to her industriousness and depth of experience cultivated from consistent participation in the Organised Private Sector in Nigeria for over 40 years and her excellent performance in various leadership positions, including as the immediate past President of the Kaduna Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture KADCCIMA Nigeria.” According to Akadiri, Dankaka has earned her stripes as an exceptional business leader with giant strides in business development, advocacy, governance and enterprise and the Economic Empowerment of women is well documented in Nigeria, West Africa and beyond. “Hajiya Dankaka is equipped with all the skills and qualities required to flourish in her new office, as “we once again express our appreciation for this opportunity for a member of the Organized Private Sector to positively impact the Public Sector. “We sincerely look forward to more collaboration in the future between the Public and Private Sectors, for mutual benefit and the wellbeing of the good people of Nigeria and the West African sub-region. NACCIMA, in its letter, stated that Dankaka’s in-depth experience at the pinnacle of business prepared her to occupy leadership positions in various business organisations and associations, including  KADCIMMA where she served as President and as an Executive member of Coalition of Northern States Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (CONSCCIMA). “Hajiya Dankaka is certainly an experienced private sector leader and entrepreneur who has made significant contributions to the growth of business and development in the private sector and productivity in Nigeria and West Africa. “Her appointment is therefore a step in the right direction by your Administration. “It is also an acknowledgement of the capacity of a prominent member of the OPSN to pilot the affairs of relevant national institutions such as the FCC, in the quest to ensure inclusive growth and development across the Federation. “Undoubtedly, Hajiya Dankaka’s excellent track record in the private sector has informed her appointment as a technocrat in your administration, in the spirit of Public Private Partnership promoted by Your Excellency’s Administration. “We hereby pledge the unalloyed support and cooperation of the entire OPSN for Hajiya Dankaka in her new appointment as we look forward to the expeditious confirmation of her appointment by the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.”