As Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu marks his first year in office, Deputy Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU examines the achievements of the people-oriented administration, which has become a model and reference point in the country. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu, surveyor, banker and dynamic governor of Lagos State, may have surpassed in one year the feats of some colleagues who are celebrating their sixth year in office. Before Covid-19, Lagos, under his leadership, had become  a huge construction site, after the initial public complaints about the total collapse of infrastructure. In Covid-19 period, the Lagos State Incident Commander has blazed the trail in the anti-pestilence war through the total mobilisation of human and material resources deployed to combat the pandemic. Isolation and treatment centre in LUTH, Infection Disease Hospital, Yaba, Nigerian Institute of Medical Research, Mobolaji Johnson Stadium, Onikan, and General Hospital, Gbagada, are doing wonders. Indeed, Covid is a distraction. But, the impact of the ‘government of inclusion’ is felt across the sectors-education, health, transportation, civil service reforms, agriculture, housing and security. Lagos State All Progresives Congres (APC) leaders have been showing encomions on the governor for living to expectation in all ramifications. Lagosians are happy that they did not vote for Sanwo-Olu in last year’s election in vain. Information and Strategy Commissioner Gbenga Omotoso said during the week-long ceremonies marking Sanwo-Olu’s first year in office, the governor will embark on virtual and on-site commissioning of housing, education, transportation and road projects in fulfilment of his promises to renew infrastructure in critical sectors of the economy. He said the governor will visit Ikorodu to commission the 360 units Lagos Homes Igbogbo Baiyeku IIB Estate. In Lekki, the Courtland Villas in Femi Okunnu Estate will also be launched. Sanwo-Olu will conduct virtual commissioning of completed classroom blocks in Maya Secondary School, Ikorodu; Eva Adelaja Junior School, Bariga; and Saviour Primary School, Ifako-Ijaiye; the Concrete Jetty in Baiyeku, Ikorodu; the Aradagun – Ajido – Epeme Road in Badagry; and the Maryland Signalisation Project. Mr. Governor, however, considers it essential to render an account of his service to Lagosians since he was voted into office a year ago. On May 29, the governor will render accounts. Instructively, commissioners and Special Advisers have been presenting their scorecards in tandem with the six pillars of the T.H.E.M.E.S Agenda. Omotoso said three special publications highlighting the governor’s achievements will be presented by Sanwo-Olu and his deputy, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat. “Governor Sanwo-Olu remains focused on fulfilling his campaign promises to Lagosians and is determined to accomplish set targets, despite the temporary setback occasioned by the economic challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic. “Specifically, the COVID-19 pandemic has proven to be an interesting alteration to our ways of life, and also provided Lagosians with the opportunity to confirm the enormous capacity of the Babaijde Sanwo-Olu Administration to lead a people-centred government,” added the commissioner. Sanwo-Olu inherited the burden of governance from his predecessor, Akinwunmi Ambode. Heaps of filth dotted the length and breadth of the metropolis, prior to May 29 when he was inaugurated as the fifth elected g overnor. It was because the immediate past administration made the time-tested waste management corporation to flounder, paving the way for a strange municipal waste clearing operations driven by Vision Scope. The beautiful state became a sight of horror. The previous administration was clearly overwhelmed by tons of domestic and industrial waste daily generated from the state. Lagosians were full of nostalgia, following the disengagement of the PSP operators and the indiscriminate dumping of waste. Every available space became a dumpsite. Lagos suffered from avoidable pollution. The onus was on Sanwo-Olu to clear the mess and restore sanity into a state of environmental pandemonium. The waste collection and management operations were back to the delight of Lagosians. In a speed of lightening, the embarrassing mountains of filth in the metropolis disappeared. Residents heaved a sigh of relief. Sanwo-Olu led a high-powered team to Olusosun Dumpsite, the largest in Lagos, for an on-the-spot assessment of challenges impeding the capacity of the state to efficiently recycle waste. Consequently, the governor launched of Blue Box Initiative, setting in motion the process of turning 10,000 metric tons of waste daily generated to wealth. Launching the Blue Box Initiative, Sanwo-Olu said: “It is now crystal clear that we cannot depend on old disposal method to manage the quantum of waste generated in Lagos. The experience of the past dictated the need to explore efficient technique in line with our ‘Smart City’ aspiration. Rather than being a burden on us, we want to create wealth through the new techniques and generate jobs for our youths. “In Lagos, 50 per cent of waste generated contains reusable resources which we can be harnessed and channeled into the economy of the State from the dustbin. This circular economy we are aiming to achieve through introduction of Blue Box Programme encourages the use of another person’s trash as fixture for another person’s process. It minimises waste in our society and generates income for the citizens.” According to environmental experts, Sanwo-Olu embarked on wealth creation through waste sorting to fully achieve improved service delivery in waste collection, thereby ridding the metropolis of filth. As from June last year, impatient Lagosians clamour for infrastructural renewal, particularly massive road construction and rehabilitation. Lagos roads were an eye sore. They were full of potholes and gullies which made them impassable. Major highways and inner roads suffered varying degrees of structural defects and degradation before Sanwo-Olu assumed the reins. Lagosians groaned over traffic snarl. The intractable gridlocks were compounded by persistent downpour that nearly aborted palliative fixing. The governor rose swiftly to the occasion. Lagosians will not condone excuses. On his second day in office, Sanwo-Olu signed his first Executive Order, which declared war on bad roads. The move heralded the massive road rehabilitation. Failed roads and bridges were revived. The governor also directed the Public Works Corporation (PWC) to begin the patching and total resurfacing of bad roads to give motorists a new lease of life. Between June and December last year, PWC had rehabilitated over 230 strategic roads across, thereby halting the stress and pains of commuters. Although the distressing gridlocks on the highways have not fully disappear despite the continuing road repair by PWC, government is consolidating on this gain with the re-construction of strategic arterial roads that will ease pressure off the busy highways. Sanwo-Olu brought succour to the ok Island axis. He inaugurated the Victoria Island-Lekki Circulation Project. It is a public-private collaboration that flagged off the construction of five major busy roads on Victoria Island-Lekki axis, starting from Alaba Oniru Road, Akingbolagbe Road to Muri Okunola Roundabout. It was a project conceptualised by Planet Projects at the instance of Access Bank Plc. The infrastructural renewal drive would lead to regeneration of seven junctions prone to traffic within the commercial axis. Sanwo-Olu said the project would improve the traffic linkage, reduce travel time and enhance productivity. The governor also flagged off the rehabilitation and expansion of major roads in Ikorodu Division, upgrading Owutu-Agric-Isawo, Bola Tinubu-Igbogbo-Imota and Ijede-Ewu Elepe roads. The projects are a big relief to the residents of the division. The three infrastructure projects, which are expected to be completed in next 20 months, are being handled by Hitech Construction Company and Arab Contractor. The 11.9 kilometres Ijede Road stretches from Ewu Elepe to Ijede town, cutting across four local councils and 37 communities. Sanwo-Olu awarded the contract for the construction of the first phase of the project, which covers 6.05 kilometres from Itamaga to Ewu Elepe town. The Owutu-Agric-Isawo Road, which covers 7.8 kilometres, cuts across eight rural communities. Also, Sanwo-Olu, through an Executive Order, directed the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) to run, at least, two shifts and work till 11pm. The goal is to achieve diffusion of traffic, especially at the peak period. Indeed, the governor has revived moribund and abandoned projects, in line with his promise not to discontinue projects inherited from the previous administrations. Thus, Sanwo-Olu restored the confidence of contractors handling various capital infrastructure and got them return to site for the completion of the projects. A case in point is the abandoned 10-lane Lagos-Badagry Highway, which, according to observers, became the subject of high-wire politics. In the twilight of the Babatunde Fashola administration, all plans to construct the highway had been concluded. But, the succeeding administration shelved the plan and left the strategic highway to rot. On June 4, last year, Sanwo-Olu visited the site to assess the situation. He promised residents on the axis that his administration would revive the abandoned road, pledging that its first phase would be completed before December. The governor turned out to be a promise keeper. Sanwo-Olu completed the construction of the first phase, which is four kilometre long, stretching from Agboju to Trade Fair. The construction of the outstanding phase of the project, which is 4.7-kilometre long, has slso begun. It stretches from Trade Fair to the main gate of the Lagos State University (LASU), Ojo. The infrastructural projects are evenly distributed across the districts, zones and local governments. Amid funfair, Sanwo-Olu inaugurated 32 roads completed by his administration in Ojokoro, a densely populated suburb in Ifako-Ijaiye Local Government Area. The contract for the 31 roads, which added up to 20.216 kilometres in total length, was awarded in 2017 in two phases. But, its construction was stalled, leaving the roads in deplorable condition. For about two years, cries of despondency by residents filled the air. Sanwo-Olu, on assumption of office, reviewed the contract for the roads and completed them in December last year. Also, construction had resumed on 13.68 kilometre-long BRT corridor that extends from Oshodi and terminates in Abule Egba. Upon completion of the project, being handled and supervised by the Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (LAMATA), Sanwo-Olu said 200 mass transit buses would be deployed on the corridor for immediate operations. Lagos Light Rail gets completion date The integrated mass transportation blueprint of the Lagos Government recorded a huge progress under the Sanwo-Olu administration, with the resumption of construction work on the abandoned Blue Line Rail project. Last December, the Sanwo-Olu government successfully completed an elevated sea-crossing track of the Blue Line Rail project – a tough, energy-sapping and resource-draining section of the project. At the ceremony held to mark the feat, Sanwo-Olu said: “The completion of this Blue Line Rail project is top priority for our administration, as it is critical to the achievement of our prioritised pillar of traffic management and transportation in our six-point development agenda, known as project THEMES. “The aim of this rail project is basically to reduce travel time through an effective and efficient intermodal transport system. It is also key to the building of a 21st century economy which is central to the vision of a Greater Lagos aspiration. We are committed to delivering this project next year and ensuring its operation starts in 2021.” The current administration mulled the commencement of the construction of Red Line rail project that will span from Alagbado to Marina, wooing investors to take charge of the four other rail lines under a Design, Build, Operate, Maintain and Transfer arrangement. In February, Sanwo-Olu formally kicked off commercial waterways transportation, with the official launch of eight newly acquired speedboats operated by Lagos Ferry Services (LAGFERRY). This is part of the current administration’s strategy to explore and raise the capacity of waterways for mass transit, thereby decongesting the roads of gridlocks. Last April, Lagos State Government shortlisted 10 consortia out of the 32 eligible companies that submitted Expression of Interest (EOI) and applied for construction of the proposed Fourth Mainland Bridge. In the coming weeks, contract for the project will be awarded to the most competent among the group of firms jostling for the job.  Workers’ welfare While governors across the federation questioned the timing and desirability of the increment of minimum wage from N18,000 to N30,000, Sanwo-Olu allayed the fears of workers in Lagos, giving them hopes of better pay. Not only did Lagos agreed to pay the N30,000 benchmark, the Sanwo-Olu administration promised workers they would earn above the wage scale. Under Sanwo-Olu, Lagos became the first state to pay the new minimum wage, with extra rates to drive motivation in the workforce. With effect from January, the Sanwo-Olu increased the employers’ contribution to employees’ Retirement Savings Account (RSA) from 7.5 per cent to 10 per cent. This, he said, complemented employees’ contribution of 8 per cent, bringing it to a total of monthly contribution of 18 per cent. Sanwo-Olu’s administration also approved the monthly release of a pension bailout fund to the tune of N1.083 billion. Sanwo-Olu procured double life and health insurance for all frontline health workers in appreciation of their sacrifice and to cater for the hazard they face in the ongoing battle against coronavirus, giving them two-level protection. He also approved an increment in the hazard allowance of frontline emergency workers.  Housing: Within his first 100 days in office, Sanwo-Olu prioritised the revival of the moribund Home Ownership Scheme. The scheme was introduced by the Fashola administration. Indeed, Sanwo-Olu accelerated the completion of abandoned mass housing projects scattered across the state. On September 4, last year, the governor led members of the State Executive Council to Igando, in Alimosho area, to open the 492-flat housing project completed by his administration. It was named after the first civilian Governor of Lagos, Alhaji Lateef Jakande. The governor said he prioritised the completion of the housing project to recover the state’s resources committed into it. Other ongoing housing schemes to be completed are located in Igbogbo, Sangotedo, Iponri, Gbagada and Omole, which will add 1,250 flats to the Home Ownership Scheme.  Health: In healthcare delivery, the Sanwo-Olu governmeht introduced “Healthy Bee Initiative” which offered free surgeries and medical services to 25,000 residents, including infants and teenagers. This programme was held across the five traditional division of Lagos, bringing quality healthcare to the doorstep of the beneficiaries. Last September, the governor completed and commissioned the abandoned 110-bed Maternal and Child Care (MCC) in Ajah, bringing succour to women in need of maternity care in Eti-Osa axis of the State. Sanwo-Olu joined the First Lady, Dr. Aisha Buhari, to open another 140-bed MCC jointly completed in Alimosho area by his government and the Office of the Special Adviser on Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to President Muhammadu Buhari, Mrs. Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire. The maternity home was initiated to strengthen the capacity of the state in providing sound maternity care for residents.  Education: Sanwo-Olu has defended the education sector with improved funding. For the first time in 36 years, Lagos State University (LASU) is set to become a residential tertiary institution. Thanks to the forthrightness of Sanwo-Olu whose investment-driven policies attracted six private property developers to partner with the government and sign Build, Operate and Transfer (BOT) agreement to deliver 8,272 units of hostels on the school campus. This project will be delivered in the next 14 months. The Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education (AOCED), Ijanikin, is being upgraded to a fully-fledged university by the Sanwo-Olu administration to address the deficit in university education among youths in the state. The State Executive Council had already approved the move; the House of Assembly is working to review of the Act setting up the school to legalise the new status of the college. Responding to the declining quality of basic education in public schools, Sanwo-Olu rolled out Excellence in Child Education and Learning (EKO EXCEL) – an education blueprint that will deploy technology to fundamentally transform the basic education template. The launch EKO EXCEL last December followed a two-week intensive training of over 5,000 teachers from various public schools and education districts across the state who will be the main drivers of the tech-driven initiative to reposition service delivery in public primary schools with special focus on learning outcomes for pupils. With the initiative, the Sanwo-Olu administration is creating highly skilled personnel in teaching.  Water: The abandoned 70 million-gallon Adiyan II Waterworks project started in 2013 during the Fashola administration has been revamped by the Sanwo-Olu administration to provide safe drinking water to more than five million Lagos residents. Upon assumption of office, Sanwo-Olu re-visited the contract for the project and re-mobilised contractor back on the site. When the project is completed in the next 15 months, it will be the biggest of its type anywhere around the country and will be raising the capacity of Lagos to supply potable water by 330,000 cubic metric tons per day to residents living in Ikeja, Alimosho, Surulere and Yaba. Sanwo-Olu said his administration would be awarding contract for the commencement of the second and third phases of the water project, which are reticulation works and construction of 8-kilometre long water intake conduits from Akute to Adiyan.  Agriculture: The governor is accelerating work on the unfinished Rice Mill and Industrial Park being built in Imota in Ikorodu Division of the State. The Rice Mill may be the biggest in the country. It will produce 32 metric tons of rice per hour and 2.8 million bags of 50kg bags of rice yearly. During an inspection of the Rice Mill in July last year, Sanwo-Olu said: “The tour of the project site is another pointer to our pledge of continuity in governance. We are taking the pain to come down to Imota to assess the magnitude of the Rice Mill and Industrial Park project initiated by my predecessors. This is a 32-metric tons per hour rice mill, which is the biggest in the country. In terms of national importance, the rice mill is expected to meet 15 to 20 per cent of national demand for rice.” Despite these feats, Sanwo-Olu said nobody should prefix his name with His Excellency. 