 A cleric, Pastor Otobong Emerson, 48, has defiled five minors, while a couple also sold their two-month-old baby for N300,000 in Edo State. Emerson, of Believers’ Ministry Church Incorporated, located at No. 146, Upper Owina, Off Evbuotubu, Benin, defiled Blessing, Doris, Rita, Igbinoba and Christabel, aged between 6 and 11 years, while the incident happened between December 2019 and February 2020. Edo state police Spokesman, Chidi Nwabuzor, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), Friday during a news conference at the state’s police headquarters in Benin, disclosed that the gender unit of the command investigated the multiple case of defilement against the Pastor Nwabuzor also disclosed that the cleric made statement and confessed to the crime, with the case already charged to court and the suspect had been remanded in police custody, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, but to appear again in court on June 11 this year. Police spokesman said: “On May 4, 2020, the Command’s Anti-Human Trafficking Unit, while acting on credible information, arrested a couple, Mr. Joshua Aiworo ‘m’ aged 38 years and Blessing Ogieva ‘f’ aged 25 years, of Afua, Upper Sakponba Road, Benin City for stealing and selling a baby of two months and seven days old to one Felicia Imaguomaruomwan ‘f’ for N300,000.00. “During investigation, Mr. Joshua Aiworo and Blessing Ogieva confessed that they gave birth to the baby on February 24, 2020 at Oghosa Clinic, Independent Street, Off Nomayo, Benin City. “They also confessed that one Joy Samuel, a.k.a. Mama Jennifer, who is based in Italy, linked them up with the buyer, one Felicia Imaguomaruomwan, who corroborated the first and second suspects’ statements that she bought the baby from them, because she was unable to bear a child. “The baby has been taken to Uyiosa Orphanage Home at Oka, Upper Sakponba Road, Benin City for care, while suspects will soon be charged to court.” Nwabuzor also revealed that the command handled a case of rape, incest and unwanted pregnancy, involving a father and his biological daughter. He said: “On April 16, 2020, the Gender Unit, State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID) of the command received a transferred case of rape and incest, together with the suspect and victim, from Iguobazuwa Divisional Police Headquarters. “Preliminary investigation revealed that in January 2020, one Mr. Patrick Ayesen ‘m’ aged 38 years, of Okosa community, Iguobasuwa, Edo State (same address with the victim), had unlawful carnal knowledge of his biological daughter, Miss Charity Patrick, aged 18 years, resulting in pregnancy for him. “Suspect made statement and confessed to the crime. Thereafter, the case was charged to court and Mr. Patrick Ayesen was sentenced to ten years imprisonment, while Miss Charity Patrick is currently with the Edo State Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development.” Edo police spokesman also admonished members of the public with useful information about criminals in their midst to always make it available to the command, while assuring that their identities would be well protected.