The almajiri system of education was a noble initiative when it was introduced, but over the years it has been bastardized. Since the advent of the Covid-19 pandemic, the dangers that almajiri children pose to the society has become obvious to governors of the region, who have vowed to end it. Deputy Political Editor RAYMOND MORDI examines the battle over the years to end or transform it, in the light of modern realities. In a move to curb the spread of Coronavirus pandemic in the region, northern states’ governors have stated their resolve to end the almajiri system of education, which is a system of Islamic education practised in northern Nigeria. It is also the name for a young boy who is taught within this system. The resolution was taken at a meeting of the Northern Governors’ Forum chaired by Governor Simon Lalung of Plateau State on April 22. At the meeting, which was convened via teleconferencing, the17 out of the 19 regional governors that participated discussed the risk that the almajiri children are exposed to due to the spread of Coronavirus and they unanimously agreed to ban the system and evacuate the children to their states of origin. But it was the Kaduna State Governor Nasir el-Rufai that reechoed the resolution recently and brought it back to the front burner of national discourse. El-Rufai who spoke during an interview on Channels Television said the outbreak of the virus provided the best opportunity for the region to end the system as it had become easy to locate the children. Governor el-Rufai said: “Northern governors are determined to end this system once and for all because it has not worked for our part of the country; it has been a source of problem for the rest of the country and we are determined to end it. “We are ready to face anyone that wants to confront us on this matter and we are going to implement it to the letter. We are ready for any backlash but we do not think we should mortgage the future of our children and put our nation at risk with the continuation of this system. It is archaic and it has not led to any positive result for our region and our country.” Since the advent of the pandemic, also known as Covid-19, the dangers that almajiri children pose to the society has become obvious to governors of the region. Almajiri system of education was a noble initiative introduced to give children the opportunity to acquire Islamic education. Under the system, children as young as four years of age are sent by their parents to reside with notable Moslem scholars, with the intention of inculcating in them the culture of memorising and reciting the Quran at an early age. But over time it became bastardized, as parents no longer visited their children living in such homes or support the scholars with money cater for the children. As a result, they roam the streets daily in search of food. This exposes them to abuse; many end up being brainwashed and recruited for anti-social activities. Indeed, in recent times, the almajiri system has been associated with the perpetuation of poverty, illiteracy, insecurity and social disorder. With the upsurge in the cases of Coronavirus in Kano State, a number of them sent from there back to their states of origin have tested positive for the Covid-19 virus. Though the current bid to end the almajiri system was spurred by the need to check the spread of Coronavirus, the idea of ending it or transforming it to bring it in line with modern realities has been on the agenda of successive governments in the past. But, owing to the fact that it is something that borders on religion, the political will needed to do it has been lacking. Incidentally, President Muhammadu Buhari had when inaugurating the National Economic Council (NEC), June last year, spoken about plans to ban the almajiri system, which accounts for eight million of Nigeria’s 10.5 million out-of-school children. It was the National Security Adviser, Babagana Monguno, who represented President Buhari at the event that made the announcement, which generated so much interest. Monguno added that education is every child’s right. At the time, observers felt that President Buhari was ready to confront the challenges. However, presidential spokesman, Garba Shehu later issued a statement, indicating that the ban was not going to take effect immediately, as it was widely reported in the media. Shehu said the ban on almajiri would take effect after due process and consultation with relevant authorities. He added that the Buhari administration is committed to free and compulsory education as a long-term objective of bringing to an end the phenomenon of out-of-school children. Since then, the issue appeared to have been laid to rest until the Covid-19 crisis erupted. During the tenure of former President Goodluck Jonathan, the Federal Government made the integration of the almajiri system into the country’s basic education system one of its cardinal programmes in education. Jonathan embarked on the construction of almajiri model schools with boarding facilities in some states in the north. This was in addition to integrating the curriculum of the almajiri education system with that of conventional schools. But, from all indications, the Jonathan initiative was not well received by stakeholders who politicised the issue, rather than seeing it as a solution to tackling the problem of children out of the school system; a development that many observers see as a breeding ground for Boko Haram insurgents. How far can the northern governors go in their bid to end the almajiri culture? Though there appears to be a resolve to end the almajiri education system, the consensus is that the current attempt to send the almajiri children back to their states of origin is merely a cosmetic exercise and that the children will return to the streets after the defeat of Covid-19 pandemic. Elder statesman and Second Republic politician Alhaji Tanko Yakasai said it is not going to be easy to abolish the almajiri system of education because it is a culture that is already deeply entrenched in the north. The Kano-based Yakasai said: “It has been in existence for over 300 years. It started from the Othman Dan Fodio era, following the jihad of 1804 and the establishment of the Sokoto Caliphate. A system of education was introduced all over northern Nigeria, particularly in the Hausa/Fulani Moslem community. So, it is not something you can eradicate overnight.” Yakasai, 94, said it is only when the three tiers of government work in synergy by coming up with a way of sharing the responsibilities among themselves that they will be able to tackle the problem in a holistic manner. He said: “Taking the children back to their states of origin, without making arrangements about how to take care of their education, feeding and accommodation would not solve the problem. “It would require careful planning, and this cannot be done unless you do a study to find out how many they are and other demographic peculiarities. Then, the federal, state and local governments must come up with a way of sharing the responsibilities.” Similarly, Emmanuel Gabari, a Kano-based social worker and human rights activist said this is the wrong time to ban the almajiri system of education “because there is so much going on in the country right now”. He said: “Solving the problem goes beyond moving them from one location to another like tomatoes. They must be settled somewhere, so that they do not continue to constitute a menace to society. As you know, a few of them that have been screened for Covid-19 infection has tested positive. “The governors should make a holistic arrangement to tackle the problem after the fight against the spread of Covid-19 has died down. The problem cannot be solved simply by sending them back to their states of origin. Many of them have lost contact with their parents. I think they are also risking the lives of these children because the manner they are being transported is deplorable.” The Executive Director, African Focus For Youth Development (AFFYD), an organisation that tackles issues that affect youth, women and children also added: “I hope after this pandemic northern governors would begin to look inwards, to explore some of the ideas that non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and other public-spirited Nigerians have been canvassing over the years to make their states conducive for residents.” Gabari said the best way to solve the problem is to set up schools where they can acquire both Western and Islamic education. He added: “I recall that former President Goodluck Jonathan championed this cause while he was in power. But many of the state governors then did not buy into the idea and consequently, they frustrated the effort, claiming that the almajiri system has to do with their religion and must be left intact. “I don’t know how the state governors would approach the dismantling of this begging culture. But, basically, let them set up schools for the children, to take them off the streets; to a place where they can learn. It is up to them whether they want to go for vocational schools, Islamic schools or the regular Western education.” Senator Shehu Sani, who represented Kaduna Central at the Eighth Senate, also frowned at the idea of sending the almajiri children back to their states of origin, to curb the spread of the disease. He mocked the idea, saying the almajiris are being rejected now because it is not election time when their votes are needed. He added: “Almajiris no more needed until 2023.” Sani said the move by the northern governors will not solve the problem and that rehabilitation and education of the almajiris is the only way out. He said: “Arresting the almajiris and dumping them in their villages or ‘trucking’ them to their ‘states of origin’ or shoving them to isolation centres will not solve the almajiri problem.” The growing security challenges facing the north and Nigeria, in general, have been blamed on the worsening poverty level facing Nigerians and the north in particular. Most states in the north are currently battling with a renewed wave of insecurity posed by Boko Haram insurgency, banditry and kidnapping. As a result, the recently deposed Emir of Kano, Alhaji Sanusi Lamido Sanusi has been admonishing northern governors to live up to their responsibilities, by finding a solution to the high rate of poverty, illiteracy, the almajiri system of education and other problems militating against the region. He said recently in Kaduna during the 60th birthday of Governor el-Rufai: “If the north does not change and tackle some of these social problems, it will destroy itself… You can’t be happy with millions of northern children out of school. You can’t be happy with nine states in the north contributing almost 50 per cent of the entire malnutrition burden in the country. “You can’t be happy with the drug problem; you can’t be happy with the Boko Haram problem. You can’t be happy with the political thuggery. You can’t be happy with all the issues, the almajiri problem that we have. We have been saying this for 20 to 30 years. If the north does not change, the north will destroy itself.” Sanusi who delivered the lecture shortly before he was deposed told northern governors, lawmakers and other politicians who graced the occasion to stop pretending as if all is well with the region. He said the quota system that the country adopted for the north to gain parity with the south in terms of education, economy and job placements in federal establishments and which has consequently lowered national standards and erased competitive spirit just to accommodate an ostensibly backward north has long ago become outdated in the modern national discourse. At another forum, in January, Sanusi blamed the culture of marrying many wives and producing many children for the poverty and backwardness in the north. He said the region would continue to be backward if its people do not change their culture.