 Lafarge Africa has distributed food and medical supplies to its host communities targeting 60,000 beneficiaries across 10,000 families in Lagos and Ogun states. Presenting the relief materials to residents of Lagos Island East Local Government Area of Lagos State, the Chief Executive Officer of Lafarge Africa Plc, Mr.  Khaled El Dokani, said: “Today, we have a fully equipped isolation centre in Ashaka and Sagamu to support the state government’s efforts to curb the pandemic. We are now making a further contribution to the health and resilience of all our host communities by donating essential food items and critical medicines to make it easier for people to survive during this pandemic as the Nigerian economy gradually rebounds.” The Communications, Public Affairs and Sustainable Development Director, Folashade Ambrose-Medebem, said: “Lafarge is collaborating with all Nigerians to fight COVID-19. We started by disseminating information about the pandemic, providing our employees, host communities and stakeholders with the knowledge required in preventing the spread of the infection. We have also donated ambulances and thousands of personal protective equipment to protect medical staff at the frontlines. Today, we are taking the battle against the pandemic again into our host communities, enabling people to stay at home and stay safe. We can curtail the spread of COVID-19 only if we fully comply with the directives issued by the Government and the health authorities.” Ogun State Deputy Governor, Mrs Noimot Oyedele, commended the company for the donation. Also, Gombe State Governor, Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, thanked the firm for donating the  facility and other items to complement the government’s efforts. Lagos State Commissioner for Youth and Social Development, Mr.Segun Dawodu, said the gesture would go a long way to make families comfortable. The Akarigbo of Remoland, Ogun State, Oba Babatunde Adewale Ajayi, expressed appreciation to Lafarge and assured the company of a continued collaboration in order to sustain their enduring cordial relationship. According to him, the food packages will help to alleviate the economic hardship brought about by the pandemic. 