 Popular comedian Bovi Ugboma has announced his decision to go into acting full time this year. He said “I have movie projects that I want to work on this year, most people don’t know that my first love is acting and writing. This year I made up my mind that I’m going to come back full time so that’s just it for me because where I am comedy-wise now, I’m at that stage where I don’t want to be on every stage, I don’t want to be on any tour, I want a spiritual experience before I choose to hold the microphone. I just don’t want to do it because there is a big check waiting for me.i want to give meaning to everything I do now. So that’s why I am like now that I have more time on my hands now let me get back to the movies”. He said his fans should not only expect comedy from him this year as he would be exploring all possible genres which include: Drama, Tragedy among others. In the recent interview, Bovi also explained how he resigned as a personal assistant to famous Nigerian actor and former Commissioner for Culture and Tourism in Delta State, Richard Mofe-Damijo, after working with him for two years and six months before trying out several auditions and eventually ended up producing his first-ever sitcom which according to him was a hit. He, however, revealed the real reason his first-ever sitcom ‘Extended family’ got terminated.  He said “Profit is pouring in, we had also got back on set and shot twice, net profit is pouring in, Ah finally I’ll be able to at least get myself a car. Now I have been asking my investor that I need my share because we had a 60-40 sharing formula so I need my share from the net profit. At a time the net profit was 7.4 million Naira this is 2008 and my investor says no we should shoot more, and I say yes I know but I need a car, my investor says take this car and gives me an official car from another company so I’m like thank you, but I need money to buy clothes and look good but my investor doesn’t budge. It happens for a month until it gets clear that my investor was not going to give me my share of the money. So I run to RMD I start crying, RMD was surprised and says don’t worry I’ll put a call through and my investor says I was disrespectful and my investor sends me a text threatening me, and my investor was a multi-millionaire and well placed in the society. So I sent her a text, I said it was a dream Joseph had that made his brothers sell him, it was also a dream that he interpreted that made him prime minister, I wrote this program and produced it, I leave it for you, I can do other things, watch out for me and that was how extended family died” said Bovi. 