 In less than three weeks of causing uproar on the social media for the rendition of cover of Rema’s latest single “Beamer”, US-based music duo of two brothers, Row and Zuwa Agbonayinma known as Roze has sent the music scene into another jamboree with their own latest single titled “Ileke”, complete with the video, offering a challenge with a prize money of one thousand dollars. The single and video “Ileke” dropped on all digital platforms on Tuesday, May 5, 2020 and it has since caught fire for its melodic rhythm, powerful vocals and enthralling beat. The title of the song “Ileke” simply means the African waist beads but beyond that, the duo explores the function of the ornament in relation to a woman’s bum and how it defines and accentuates it during dance. To drive home their point that the “Ileke” is more than an ornament to beautify just the waist and bum of the African woman Roze has thrown open a challenge hash tagged #ilekechallenge with a one thousand naira bounty to the good for the winner or the winners, as the case may be. According to the brothers who are signed to U and I Music, “This challenge is to give everyone an opportunity to showcase their talents; such as using the song “Ileke” to be creative, with dance videos, art, drawing, skits, comedy, TikToks, duets etc. (videos with creative content). The best content creators will stand a chance to win all or part of the money. The challenge will be going on from Tuesday (May 5th) till Sunday (May 9th), and may be extended if need be. We will decide the five best content creators and the fans will get a chance to pick the three final winners. The 1st winner gets $500, the 2nd winner gets $300 and the 3rd winner gets $200. During the period of selection, creators and fans will be able to tag as many people as they want to vote for them in the comment section.” Since the COVI D-19 global lockdown began, the brothers have been present on Instagram, doing all sorts of giveaways and bringing top entertainers on board. The last person to join them on their last Instagram Live session is Ayo Makun who was given a task to unravel many mysteries around the African “Ileke”. When the duo did a cover of Mavin’s Rema’s “Beamer” in April the ovation for them was so loud even Don Jazzy himself had to commend them for the effort. Some people who saw the cover on Instablog9ja begged the Mavin’s boss to organise a remix of the song, collaborated between Rema and Roze. “Just listen to what you did with Rema’s song on Instablog9ja. I think you are underrated. Had to search for your page. Well done, the sky is your starting point,” one @awopepe amongst many others commented. The music duo, born Eghosa Rodney Agbonayinma (ROW) and Osazuwa Michael Agbonayinma (ZUWA) popularly known as Roze are children of politician and music lover, Hon Ehiozuwa Johnson Agbonayinma. They were born in Houston, Texas, January 11, 1998 and July 30, 1999 respectively. The song “Ileke” was produced with the help of an artiste known as Lez. It was produced by Mekoyo while the video was shot by Clarence Peters.