Twenty-five years after 1994 AFCON victory and first World Cup qualification for Nigeria, how does it feel to be a member of that squad? Wow! 25 years is a long time. Sincerely I’m very proud to be a member of that team. That  squad has been a yardstick to measure past performances of the Super Eagles, even when it was Green Eagles and the future Eagles of Nigeria. I’m excited and humbly happy to be a part of this wonderful team. The team was warmly celebrated by the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) to mark the 25th anniversary, what memories did meeting members of that team evoke? Wonderful memories that was! We had to sit together with colleagues and most of us have not seen ourselves for quite a long time, except for few who we get to speak with once a while. I am very happy that the NFF recognized and did honour us. It was a good reunion and I was happy to be part of it. Sunday Oliseh did speak concerning the team and the enthusiasm that followed show that people still remembered the squad. I feel elated and it is nice. After winning the AFCON, you missed  the squad to the 1994  World Cup. How did you feel? It was a sad experience to be a member of a team and after the AFCON in Tunisia and doing so well and putting in a lot of fitness time and improving on my tactics, and the trainer; Clemens Westerhof actually fell in love with the way I was playing, and announced me to the world. But, in the nick of time Mike Emenalo just came from nowhere and took my position. I felt very bad but it’s gone forever. Since that time I knew that something is really wrong with us in this country. A country where you threw away certain criteria for people to occupy positions even in the football team; thepressure on Westerhof was so much not to talk about the internal gang-up that he had to cave in. Emenalo was not playing in any team. He did not play AFCON with us and suddenly he made the World cup team. I do not begrudge him, it was his luck. I only complained to Stephen Keshi, our captain then, and told him ‘you couldn’t have allowed this,’ but he himself was struggling to survive because he needed to be at the World Cup. I don’t want to say much about that because it’s gone and gone. I made up with late Keshi before he died because I held him responsible at a point knowing that it was gang up and some members of the team  that actually facilitated Emenalo coming into the team. You have since moved on to  football administration ahead of coaching. How is the journey so far? I am a trained coach and as at 2008, I coached Bendel Insurance. I went for a coaching course in Holland and in 2017 I did a CAF B course in Abuja. So, I have a coaching knowledge having played the game to the highest level. But, I prefer administration because I have capacity and wherewithal to have a better impact in our football development. I have my first degree in Business Administration from University of Benin, when I was playing in the local league. When I retired, I came back home and had my Master degree in Business Administration from the same school. With that qualification, I think I have capacity to be able to impact most positively in football development. And that is what I have been doing. I try my best to make sure that every engagement that I have with turning around the system, I do my utmost best because I know where the shoe pinches. Most ex-footballer stay in coaching because football is what they have been doing all their lives. However I encourage them to go into administration too so that we can make a change instead of complaining that those who do not participate in the game actively as players are controlling and doing what they like. From 2016, you began to run the affairs of Delta FA as acting chairman, what are your achievements? Actually, in late 2016 I became acting chairman after Jay Jay Okocha my immediate boss willingly pulled away for reasons best known to him. When I came on board I do believe that I tried to make the board run smoothly and do what was necessary to carry on the activity that comes from the NF. I know that the way I run the state league was one of the best in the country, although later on it got thwarted by some quarters in the system. I think that all hands must be on deck for our football to grow and I believe that where a system is put in place and there is a lot of impunity underground, then we are not ready for development. Where there is equity and justice, development thrives. We have challenges but I consider this as normal things because you cannot win without having challenges. Moving from one stage to another, obstacles will be on the way and how you surmount them makes you a better person. Last year, you were accused of fund mismanagement by some quarters, where did it go wrong? You give the dog a bad name to hangthe dog. Like I said part of the challenges that I faced as acting chairman was the plot that became thick after the Russia 2018 World Cup that Edema Fuludu must go. And they were shopping for a candidate to become the chairman, reason being that I wasn’t playing ball the way I should play ball, I wasn’t subservient to ‘constituent authority’ but Okocha left and we were trying to flow with the system, but the system was not willing to flow because what they ask me to do is against my conscience. I will not do it. And because of that I was considered an outcast or a rebel. When the oppressed begin to fight back he is called a rebel. Forget the fact that you stand on principle to do it right. In football, I always believe that if a team is forced to lose to another team not because they are not good but because they have been mandated through some mechanism that is inappropriate in football. Then, people who train and prepare for games are just doing it for nothing. I’ve stood my ground over time that when we play our FA Cup, it must be on a level playing field. If a grassroots team is able to defeat a state sponsored team then let that team go ahead and win. Football is about winning and losing and that is the glamour of it. So, I faced obstacles especially when they said they wanted another person to take over the chairmanship seat and we went round talking about it and all they wanted to do is tarnish my image with fund mismanagement. I keep asking the question. Did I open an account? Yes. Why did I open the account in the first place? They talk about existing accounts. We had two existing accounts in Delta FA which Jay Jay Okocha did not touch because of serious issues surrounding those accounts until they became dormant. And when I came in I did not even know they were not operating those accounts and they needed to pay money into my account for the NNL league to run because we have NNL clubs in Delta state, and the FA has to take charge of payment of indemnity of referees and taking charge of stadium and stuff. So the money that comes from league board has to be dispensed by the FA. I wouldn’t want such monies paid into my personal account so I called the secretary to open an account. I gave him the mandate and he went to Sterling Bank and opened an account. So, the issue was that I did not call a proper meeting for that account to be opened. But, the account was operational and that account is what we used to run the board from March 2017 up till December 2018. When the accusation of mismanagement came in, the question is where did I get the money that I stole in the first place? Government never gave me one naira; government never paid money into the account. Board members did not bring in money into that account.IfI went sourcing for money and use part of it to source for more fund and make our association better why would somebody say I misappropriated fund. Check the total account what they are saying I misappropriated is N100, 000. It is unimaginable. I told them take me to EFCC, ICPC and law enforcement agents and let us know the persons money that I misappropriated. It is defendable anytime, anywhere. Unfortunately, when you want to hang a dog, you give it a bad name. The June 12, 2019 election that returned you to the chairmanship seat has been kicked against by the NFF, how do you explain this? Well, unfortunately the NFF is shooting itself on the foot.The truth is that the President of the NFF, Mr Amaju Pinnick is basically the problem we are having in Delta FA because he’s insisting that chairman of the Delta State Sports Commission, who is the governor’s younger brother, doubles as chairman of the FA. And we have not had any cogent reason apart from the fact that he said if Edema Fuludu is chairman, the state government would not support the NFF with funding in international matches and stuff. And I’ve said that while I was FA acting chairman, the government of Sen. Ifeanyi Okowa has given full support and sponsored games for the NFF without any interference from any quarters. What has changed that when I become chairman that funding will stop. For me, and a lot people, this is not right and correct. Secondly, why would the chairman of the sport commission doubles as the FA chairman? Truth is that they don’t want people like Victor Ikpeba and I who toiled for this country to run football in the state. Is it only about government funding? Funding from government is necessary but you cannot coerce us to do the unthinkable.  The NFF must begin to think and let its executive board sit down and do what is appropriate. If the South-south chairmen have written to the NFF for arbitration then arbitration should be called. You are following due process and let them tell us what is wrong with our election by looking into the statutes of the FA and the NFF and take decision if they have right to interfere in our internal elections. I don’t want to go into too many details until the appropriate time. You also rejected the normalisation committee set up by the NFF, why? Normalization committee is an aberration as far as we are concerned. It is not in the 2010 statute of the NFF in which we operate, it is not in the statute of the Delta FA. It is imported from FIFA 2019 statutes as amended. So, it holds no water and is not correct. The truth is that the NFF through Mr. Pinnick wants to have his way. I don’t know what he has promised some people but in the eyes of the public it is pure injustice. The NFF are playing to the gallery. For example, Ibrahim Gusau, who came to Delta State to see to the issues and returned to set up anormalisation committee, has a lot to say. This is because before now I’ve been told to step down and I refused. How can they ask me to step down for somebody that did not buy nomination form? All they want to do now is to satisfy the ego of NFF president and I do know that not everybody is in for this impunity. This is what we are trying to stop. It is either we win or learn, quoting Nelson Mandela, the great South Africa president. How is Delta football faring in all this? Well, as it is, Delta football is held in the jugular. When you try to do an imposition that is not legitimate it will turn out this way. Things don’t work out this way. Just like the 1993 June 12 election that was annulled, this is the kind of thing when we don’t follow the right part. A lot of the coaches and persons runningfootball in the grassroots are just looking and watching, because, we are in a country where people are unwilling to speak out publicly for fear of the backlash. There are insinuations that ex-footballers are not encouraged to take active place in football administration in the country? Of course yes! That is my school of thought that ex-footballers should be encouraged to take active part in football administration, not just coaching. He who wears the shoe knows where it pinches. They will know how to treat players well. But, you cannot run away from political power where those who think that they are demigod want to control situations. I have often told my colleagues, ex-players; both past and present, that have capacity to go into administration to do it. Not to be afraid to go into board of FAs and get into the system to make things right and workable, like what the Players Union is doing to fight for players rights so that administrators that are trying to kill the game and treat the players badly will be brought to book. More footballers should get into the board of the FAs and football administration. We are not saying that people who did not play football should not run the game if they have the capacity and love the game and have the financial wherewithal, they should come in but not to hold the game to ransom. Not to do what is not obtained in other climes.   