For cosmopolitan ladies and gentlemen within the Lagos and Abuja social radar, Sapphire Scents owned by upwardly mobile socialite, Adewale Adejana is like an everyday routine. Wearing the cologne is more like a signature for most happening dudes who take the business of smelling nice serious. For Wale Jana, the brain behind the scent made from the rarest essential oils which are OUD, his once flourishing business empire, raking in millions of Naira with a wide scope of distribution channel and investment seems to be going down the drain. Wale got into the news last year, after sharing his view about the rape allegations made by Busola Dakolo against COZA Pastor; Biodun Fatoyinbo. After airing his view, throwing his weight behind the popular Abuja based pastor, Wale received jabs from lots of his customers online. Some faulted his views stating that throwing his weight behind Pastor Fatoyinbo who was alleged of rape is disappointing. Some of his followers on social media even went as far as destroying his product by burning them just to show their displeasure for his support towards Pastor Fatoyinbo. Some even went as far as boycotting the purchase of his product. On realising most of his customers boycotting and burning his products to show their displeasure for what he scribbled on his Instagram page, Wale quickly retracted his words by rendering an unreserved apology to his customers and followers. From that moment, his business empire has been struggling with sales as patronage nose-dived drastically. “Patronage has dropped. I must confess to you. That comment on Pastor Fatoyinbo and Busola Dakolo saga further plunged his company into Bankruptcy. His damage control could not salvage the situation as many are hell-bent to teach him a lesson most especially, the women who are strong loyalist of his brands,” a source said. In the last few months, several investors and distributors were said to have been on his jugular for payments of entitlements, and the graduate of Bowen University was alleged to be battling to sort them all.