The report of President Muhammadu Buhari’s directive setting up of a panel for the implementation of the recommendations of the Presidential Committee on Restructuring and Rationalisation of Federal Parastatals, Commissions and Agencies, chaired by former Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Steve Oronsaye, is generating some excitement that the government may finally have woken up to the dire portents of a post-Covid-19 world. The bulky 660-page report, which recommended the scrapping of 102 agencies and organizations, had been gathering dust since 2012 when it was submitted. Even President Goodluck Jonathan who it was that set up the committee never bothered to implement the recommendations, possibly for lack of political will. And the succeeding Buhari government wouldn’t touch it with a 10-foot pole. Since coming to power in 2015, President Buhari has not hidden his visceral opposition to any form of change in how things are done. So, what has changed? Why is the President suddenly amenable to effecting necessary changes that have been long overdue? The answer is very simple: Nigeria is not exempted from the drastic economic downturns and misfortunes occasioned by the ruinous Covid-19 pandemic, that nothing will ever be the same again. For example, both the global demand for and price of petroleum, the product on which Nigeria depends for its foreign currency earnings, have fallen precipitously and there is no likelihood of any significant upswing any time soon. So, it is good news that the president is acknowledging the inevitability of the country’s inexorable economic decline and the need to run a leaner government. Wonders will never cease: a simple but deadly virus in just a matter of weeks has forced a congenitally rigid and hitherto intransigent president to shift ground, a feat millions of Nigerians, try as they did, could not achieve in five years! We must admit it: the president’s changed disposition is not borne of personal conviction; it is of force majeure. Can the president be persuaded to adopt a similar positive disposition towards other subsisting vital recommendations for good governance that he has thus far consigned to dusty shelves?  For the sake of Nigeria that he proclaims to love, it is time the president did away with his predilection for excessive power and resource concentration at the federal centre, soften the rigidity that has hallmarked his administration and which negates his party’s campaign promises to enthrone true federalism and good governance. It’s time to implement the non-controversial recommendations of the 2018 APC Committee on True Federalism chaired by Kaduna State governor, Nasir El-Rufai, many of which are actually in consonance with the provisions of the APC constitution, its manifesto, as well as its campaign promises of 2014/2015. And this should not be problematic since the APC controls the executive branch, the two houses of the National Assembly and a substantial number of state governments and state Houses of Assembly. In its wide-ranging recommendations the APC committee identified issues the executive can act on without the requirement of new legislation, and those that will require legislation and changes to the constitution. If President Buhari is willing to go the whole hog, there is hardly a better time than now when executive-legislature synergy and amity exist for the first time under the Fourth Republic, to take the recommended critical steps for rectifying our country’s debilitating defects and improving how we are governed. This is what statesmanship demands. Let us remind President Buhari that great leaders are judged by how they lead in times of crisis, not how they perform in peace time. Yes, the Covid-19 pandemic is a global crisis, but it comes with critical life-changing local implications for each country to address. Our world as we know it is undergoing as yet unprecedented changes, and each country will have to bear its own burdens. The era of multilateral cooperation for common good may gradually be giving way to new nativism and rabid nationalism as the new normal. Nigeria cannot afford to be caught unprepared for the eventualities of a rapidly changing world order. Let us therefore seize the moment to secure our country’s future. In moving Nigeria forward, the intelligently articulated, realistic and readily actionable recommendations of the APC committee must be commended to the president for speedy implementation for a proper federalism to become a reality. In making its recommendations, the APC committee properly underscored the widespread national yearnings for change. In Volume 1 of the two-volume report, the committee noted that “There was a growing public debate on APC’s actual desire to restructure the country, partly because history has shown that no matter the source or initial agitation for restructuring and true federalism when in opposition, the allure of centralized federal might as it is, is too enticing to forgo when achieved. There is a public perception that the APC is no different.” Well, now is the time to prove that the APC is different, and to go full throttle not just with the Oronsaye Report, as the government has decided to do, but also with the APC committee report and other subsisting ones as well. Any further stiffness on his part will be counterproductive. As it is today, the Oronsaye report is just one in a series of formal reports and recommendations from officially commissioned committees or panels that are crying for implementation. Most prominent for immediate mention and that deserve immediate and dispassionate consideration for implementation is the Report of the 2014 National Conference which made elaborate, well thought out and actionable recommendations for achieving the good governance that we all desire. Unfortunately, President Buhari’s attitude to the 2014 National Conference Report has been one of casual, if not contemptuous, dismissal. This was initially understandable even if his refusal was borne out of overt partisan disdain for the then newly deposed PDP-led government, as well as the fact that even the Jonathan administration that set up the conference and received its report simply left it to gather dust. This gave the impression that it was mere political gimmick to garner electoral support for his second term bid. And this made many people, including yours truly at the time, to empathize with Buhari’s unwillingness to remove the rug from underneath his own feet by implementing the report that would have substantially robbed him of the huge powers of the federal government. But after the first few years in office and having had enough time to study the Nigerian situation, President Buhari’s rigidity and negative body language began to reek of self-serving condescension and outright disdain for the wishes of Nigerians. President Buhari is not a mediaeval potentate but an elected leader, so he should stop being dismissive or disdainful of public opinion! His aversion to change has been so palpable that even the APC leadership lacks the courage to remind him of the provisions of the party’s constitution and manifesto, and his own electioneering promises, much less the APC Committee report. Unlike politicians whose preoccupation is planning for next elections, President Buhari is no longer eligible to run for office, therefore let him now be that statesman who plans for future generations. If he fails in this onerous task, he risks being the last president of Nigeria as we know it.