 The Senator representing Ondo South Senatorial District,Ondo 2020: Senator Tofowomo knocks PDP aspirants in Ondo South, has said the Peoples Democratic Party has only two formidable governorship aspirants in Ondo South senatorial district. Over 15 persons from Ondo South have indicated interest to contest in the PDP primaries. Senator Tofowomo who was elected on the PDP platform said the two formidable aspirants hail.from Okitipupa and Ilaja local government areas. Tofowomo who spoke in a chat with journalists in Akure on Tuesday said the PDP would easily defeat Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu if it picks its candidate from Ondo South senatorial district. He stated that the coming out of 15 aspirants from Ondo South was a sign that the region was ready to produce the next governor of the state.” His words, “With what is on the ground now, there are two formidable aspirants in Ondo South, one from Okitipupa LG, and the other one from Ilaje LG. I believe the party will do what’s needful to rally round one of the aspirants so that one of them will become the candidate of the party for the upcoming governorship election. ”I must say the two aspirants are meaningful aspirants, they have what it takes to become the governor of this state. They have done very well, they have moved around the entire 18 LGs. So we don’t have to beat about the bush, Ondo South is ready for the governorship election, and we are going to produce not only the candidate of the party but also the next governor of the state. ”My position has always remained that the governorship ticket of the party should be zoned to Ondo South. Our leaders should come together and make a meaningful decision by zoning the governorship ticket of the party to Ondo South without delay. ”If you look at the last election, PDP had very meaningful results in Ondo South compared to other senatorial districts. ”Moreso, the present governor is from the North senatorial district; but as soon as he finishes his four years, with common sense, the governorship ticket of the party should go to the South because the Central senatorial district had spent 8 years during former Governor Mimiko ”So the leadership of PDP should not play games, they should be very formidable and upright. I’m speaking for Ondo South now, we are very ready for the governorship election and we would deliver a good result for the party if the candidate is featured from the district. ”The six local governments in Ondo South are very solid and I’m sure they are ready to produce a very good result. If the party zone governorship ticket to the South, definitely, PDP will form the next government of Ondo State.”