  SPEAKER of the House of Representatives, Mr Femi Gbajabiamila, must have overrated the ninth National Assembly to think that Nigerians would appreciate his railroading of his now controversial Infectious Diseases Bill into the House, and making it pass the second reading a few hours, same day. After running into a predictable storm on the rather contentious bill, Mr Gbajabiamila now decided to do what he should have done first – allow the bill to be discussed at a public hearing where stakeholders would have the opportunity of contributing to its contents. This is the kind of issues faced when leaders want to initiate reforms from above without input from the beneficiaries. Mr Gbajabiamila is now trying to defend his action on what might truly have been in the best interest of Nigerians. Unfortunately, at this stage, it is difficult to make Nigerians see the bill in that light. The bill is to provide an updated basis for the government’s anti-pandemic efforts by replacing the National Quarantine Act of 2004. More specifically, the Infectious Diseases Act is supposed to create a legal framework for the Federal Government to manage the special  circumstances surrounding infectious disease outbreaks, like the current COVID-19 pandemic, and prevent it from spreading. Under the Act, the president, the health minister and particularly the Director-General of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) can make regulations on quarantining, vaccination and prevention of infectious diseases in Nigeria. Indeed, some of the public officials or those delegated by them would have the power to convert any building into isolation area and the police will also be empowered to arrest anyone who, in their view, flouts the law, without warrant of arrest. Unfortunately, Mr Gbajabiamila got more than he bargained for when criticisms began pouring in, with Nigerians saying they were not ready for such a law that would not only make them guinea pigs of foreign drug makers but also curtail their freedom. The speaker had to step down the bill, which had, curiously, passed the second reading in what could pass for the speed of light in legislative matters. In truth, the Quarantine Act has been overtaken by events like many of our other legislations. But then, if it must be replaced, it must follow procedure because of its highly sensitive nature. How Mr Gbajabiamila could ever have imagined such a proposed law would pass without scrutiny beats my imagination. It is not one of those run-of-the-mill legislations, given its wide implications for the health of Nigerians, their fundamental human rights and even especially in the light of what the speaker himself called several conspiracy theories. Nigerians have not forgotten so soon, the price they paid for the civil   rule in the country, they therefore would not fold their arms and watch  their hands and legs manacled, consciously or unconsciously, through a law which looked like forward march to the past. If anything, certain actions taken on the bills both in the Senate and even the House of Representatives are enough to make the kind of insinuations that have trailed them gain currency. It would interest Speaker Gbajabiamila to know that his defence of rushing the bill  because of the exigencies created by the new coronavirus (COVID-19) which is currently ravaging the world cannot resonate with Nigerians. In the first place, Nigerians have been hearing such from their governments from time immemorial (as some historians say). Indeed, such statements have become cliche in public speeches and the people are hardly persuaded by them any longer. As the saying goes, “once beaten, twice shy.” Nigerians have been beaten countless times such that any  public official making such claims now must be ready to show more than proof. Mouthing it is not enough. Apart from the rush to get the bill through, it would appear that even in the Senate too, not all members had seen a copy of the upper legislative chamber’s version of the bill titled The National Health Emergency Bill, sponsored by Chukwuka Utazi, as at the time it passed first reading last week. Thanks to the former deputy senate president, Ike Ekweremadu, who called his colleagues to order and announced that he had not seen a copy of the proposed bill. Apparently, many other senators had not sighted the bill, yet it had passed first reading! Ekweremadu said he was concerned because he did not want the kind of bashing the House of Representatives’ bill had received to trail their own version of the law. Although Senator Utazi said his own proposal did not contain one of the most knocked aspects of the House’s bill, which is compulsory vaccination, the fact that senators, like the House of Representatives members did not have copies of such proposed legislation in advance leaves room for suspicion. We know all manner of legislative charades had taken place in our hallowed chambers, especially in the past, we do not want such things under the present government. The legislation in question is too important to be toyed with or passed through the back door. When these observed lapses on the procedure to gift the country a brand new law to be able to combat pandemics such as VOVID-19 are added to the fact that even the man at the centre of the fight against coronavirus, the NCDC director-general, Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, said he was not aware the House was proposing such legislation, then you begin to wonder whether even hyssop soap can wash anyone claiming he means well for the country by proposing the law, clean. Granted that Speaker Gbajabiamila is a lawyer, the truth of the matter is that the legislation he is proposing is not only about law. It’s all about healthcare, politics, religion, law and what have you. There is no way you can do any law in this regard that the NCDC boss’ input would not be useful. Pandemics don’t happen all the time. We may not witness another in a very long time from now. At any rate, if Nigerians are opposed to some of these proposals, it is because they know our problem in the country is not necessarily the absence of laws but more about enforcement. Are we saying we could not have done better in our handling of COVID-19 even with our present moribund laws? The truth of the matter is that it is more of impunity and recklessness in high places. For instance when the former chief of staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, Mallam Abba Kyari decided to be moved to Lagos from Abuja after testing positive for coronavirus, and against laid down procedure, was that because there were no procedures to guide such conduct? Worse still, was it also due to lack of processes that his mourners decided to break the social-distancing procedure at his funeral? One must note the Federal Government’s apology here; but while that is noted, it does not necessarily erase what happened. So, the average Nigerian knows that leadership is the issue. There is so much impunity at the top; too many king’s goats. I reviewed a book, The joy of Service: An Autobiography for former Inspector-General of Police, Alhaji Aliyu Atta, about two months ago. I was so fascinated with an aspect of the book where a cadet officer stopped the entourage  of the Sardauna of Sokoto, the then Premier of Northern Region, to inspect their vehicle particulars. This infuriated some of the usually overzealous security men on the entourage but the Sardauna ordered them to let the officer do his job. How many of today’s lesser big men will do that? This is why some Nigerians are asking the lawmakers to make themselves available first for the testing of whatever vaccinations their makers (that those Nigerians believe are the ones sponsoring the bill) are trying to market here, due to both our huge population and lackadaisical governance. Coronavirus came into Nigeria not because we don’t have laws but because some people did not do their work at the points of entry and nobody is asking questions. The virus was even promoted by a top government official who had it and also came in from abroad and continued business as usual. We cannot afford to give such wide powers envisaged by the speaker’s bill to individuals in a country where people are not only in government; they are also in power! We are living witnesses to what people have done with power in this part of the world. I have always believed that while power corrupts, absolute power corrupts absolutely. Power intoxicates. Ours is a country where many governors are more or less emperors. They dispense public funds as if they are spending their personal money. Some of them will tell you “I can’t spend my money (public funds o) on this or that”. I learnt, reliably, that the Late General Sani Abacha whose loot we are still repatriating decades after his death once told the managing director of the now defunct Daily Times ” so you are the MD of my paper, and I don’t know you?” (Another way of saying the man was not coming to pay obeisance to him). It is in this same country that governors would wake up from the wrong side of the bed and decide that the building of someone whose face they do not like should be demolished in ungodly hours overnight, ostensibly for blocking drainage. Meanwhile, that structure had been there whilst they were in the same camp but they never saw it was blocking drainage then. We are living witnesses to how a minister of the Federal Republic manning a portfolio of life and death was asked to be reporting to another minister manning ‘stomach infrastructure’ by someone who hadn’t the power to make such order, and heaven did not fall. Indeed the minister of life and death lost his opportunity of a return ticket because he had been blacklisted by the powerful man in the same government! As a matter of fact, I learnt, reliably or otherwise, that even after the death of the person who made the order, that ‘Fatwa’ is yet to be lifted! Mr Gbajabiamila must realise that we already have enough thin gods in Nigeria; just one more will be too many. I implore everyone with objections to the bill to avail themselves the opportunity of the window of public debate whenever it opens. For sure, and given the benefit of hindsight, the Infectious qDiseases Bill cannot pass as is. Otherwise, it could itself infect otherwise sane Nigerians who would in turn become something else with the kind of sweeping powers the law wants to place at their disposal. Countries with such legislation have inbuilt institutions with checks and balances. We don’t. So, let whoever is desirous of truly gifting us a better anti-pandemic law follow the due process and flee from undue haste to avoid unsavoury allegations. Otherwise, all the angels in heaven swearing on his behalf would not make a dent on Nigerians who naturally believe that their leaders can only travel at the speed of light when they want to spoil themselves, not when matters affecting the people are concerned.     