 The Ekiti State Covid-19 Task Force has ordered compulsory test for corpses being brought to the state to ascertain their COVID- 19 status. The Coordinator of the State Task Force, Prof Bolaji Aluko, who made this known in Ado Ekiti, on Friday while giving situation report on the pandemic, said the measure was primarily to prevent any health-related dangers. Aluko regretted that some people were still trying to forcefully enter the state through the borders despite prohibition, saying those that were intercepted by security agencies on Thursday at Ido Ile Ekiti, were immediately turned back. He said: “Movement of corpses had earlier been banned outrightly in Ekiti. But because of this lockdown relaxation, corpses will now be allowed to move in and out of Ekiti from next week every Monday, Wednesday and Friday . “But let me emphasise that corpses that must enter Ekiti must be certified through registration at the Ministry of Health to know their histories. This is about our health and no compromise will be tolerated”. Aluko stated that a total of 40,000 food palliatives had been distributed to vulnerable groups in the state, adding that another 50,000 will be added to cushion the effect of economic situation on the populace. The Commissioner for Health, Dr. Mojisola Yaya-Kolade, disclosed the patients in isolation centre were stable and responding to treatment . The commissioner howerver revealed that the second test conducted for the 45- year- old doctor infected by a dead COVID- 19 patient was still positive after expiration of the 14- day isolation period. “Another set of blood samples had already been taken from all the patients to ascertain their statuses before any of them can be released, because you have to be negative twice before being let out of the isolation centre,” she stressed. The Commissioner for Environment, Hon Gbenga Agbeyo, said the state has taken delivery of four motorised fumigators donated by Ooni of Ife, Oba Enitan Adeyeye Ogunwusi. Agbeyo said the donation from the traditional ruler will enhance state’s fumigating capacity to be able to cover the 16 local government areas of the state.