 The Imo State Police Command has arrested eight notorious kidnappers five of them were linked to the murder of one Leo Micah Isiah who lived at Akwakwuma in Owerri North LGA of Imo State. Isiah’s ash coloured Lexus car model RX350 with Reg. No. AKL 785 AG was also taken away. Luck however ran against them as they were arrested on May 10, 2020 at about 3.40pm at Udi in Enugu State by SARS operatives. The five suspects arrested for the murder of Isiah are Godson Chimezie 28 years old from Nwangele LGA of Imo State, Emmanuel Amadi 28 years old from Ngor-Okpala LGA of Imo State, Innoson Udeze 45 years old and Eze Simon 23 years old both from Nsude Udi LGA of Enugu State; and L/cpl Ifeanyi Nwaiwu ‘m’ of Ogwa in Mbaitoli LGA of Imo State, a dismissed member of Nigerian Army School of Military Engineer (NASMEN) Makurdi. Parading the suspects, the state Commissioner of Police, Isaac Akinmoyede said they were arrested through painstaking discreet investigation. According to him the suspects who had confessed to the crime led operatives to where the decomposing corpse of their victim was recovered. He said that the corpse has been deposited at Federal Medical Centre Owerri (FMC) morgue. “Two of the suspects who wore Army camouflage at the time of arrest, confessed they were dismissed soldiers. He noted that in the recent times in Owerri and its environs, criminals have been using military camouflage while robbing or kidnapping unsuspecting members of the public. In another development, the commissioner disclosed that at about 09:00hrs at Arondizogu, SARS operatives received a distress call on a case of kidnapping, swung into action and arrested one James Agonsi 33 years old of Obinakpa Ndiuche Arondizogu in Ideato North L.G.A of Imo State. He said the suspect made confessional statement as to his involvement in the kidnapping of one Rita Ojika of same address in 2018, and that he has been on the run since then, while his gang members are in prison custody. He said at Umuakam Osina in Ideato South L.G.A, two more suspects of the gang were arrested in connection with the robbery of one Martha Utigba of the same address, and a search was conducted in their homes/premises, where the victim’s hand bag, a Nokia Phone and MTN Recharge cards were recovered. He added that the suspects took the operatives to Umuoboim in Ideato South L.G.A where locally made, cut to size gun with its 8 rounds of live cartridges wrapped with nylon bag hidden in the bush were recovered. Sequel to the arrest of James Agonsi, two other gang members were arrested. They are Thankgod Albert 30yrs old of Umunagbo, Abia State and Chinonso Ugah of Aguata L.G.A, Anambra State, he said.