Despite the caution of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Niger Governor Abubakar Sani-Bello has sworn in People’s Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Safiyanu Yahaya as Chairman of Magama local government area. The Governor, during the swearing-in ceremony at the Government House, Minna said he was acting based on an High Court ruling that quashed the November 30, 2019, local government Council election in Magama local government on the ground of pre-election offense. The High Court 5 sitting in Minna, in March declared Safiyanu Yahaya winner of the election and ordered the State Independent Electoral Commission (NSIEC) withdraw the certificate of return issued to Salihu Ubandoma of the All Progressives Congress, (APC). The Niger state APC Chairman, Engineer Mohammed Jubril Imam, had earlier advised Sani- Bello to resist all pressure to swear in anybody as the new Chairman of Magama local government Council as the party had filed an appeal against the judgment. Imam told reporters that any attempt to swear in a new chairman would be against the rule of law and would embarrass the APC government in the state. “APC is the ruling party and tension is building up and a lot of rumors are ongoing over the removal of the Magama Council Chairman. We call on the Governor to resist all pressure and go by the rule of law so as not to embarrass the APC government. Anything done contrary to the law will embarrass the APC government. We are calling on the government to let the legal process continued and let the status-quo remain the same,” he stated. Speaking after his swearing-in, Yahaya described Sani -Bello as a man of justice, saying the Governor had demonstrated his respect for the rule of law by acting in compliance with the directive of the Court. He said that the Governor took the best decision by swearing him in despite the fact that he belonged to another political party. The oaths of office and allegiance were administered by Justice Salisu Alhassan Majidadi who represented the State Chief Judge.