Scholarship, funds for business, and a family home have made it possible for nine-year-old physically-challenged boy, Chiagozie Nweke, to stop hawking and go back to school after three years.  KOFOWOROLA BELO-OSAGIE reports on his ordeal.  Until early last month when the Federal Government locked down three states and shut schools nationwide as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, Chiagozie Nweke was still hawking sachets of water (locally called pure water) in Abakiliki, capital city of Southeastern Ebonyi State – on one leg. While many parents kept their wards indoors as much as possible to protect them from the Coronavirus, this was not a luxury the Nwekes could afford.  They depended on the N500 – N1,000 profit that nine-year-old  Chiagozie made selling three or four bags of packaged water (containing 20 sachets each) so he could eat at least one meal daily. The second of six children became a breadwinner of sorts despite using crutches to aid mobility because his timber-selling father and trader mother had spent all they had trying to save his leg. An accident had caused the amputation of Chiagozie’s left leg at the age of six and disrupted his education. His family had depended on traditional bone healers to nurse the leg back to good health but instead it decayed and by the time they visited the Federal Teaching Hospital, Abakaliki,  it was too late.  He was discharged seven months after his hospitalisation on compassionate ground because his father could not pay N350,000 bill. However, Chiagozie’s story has changed for the better, thanks to public spirited groups and foundations that have come to his rescue since his plight attracted social media attraction last month.  A group, the Igbo Union, donated food items and paid medical bills for his mother. A former lawmaker in Lagos State House of Assembly, Iyoola Omisore, also promised to get him a prosthetic leg and fund his education with the support of his friends home and abroad. Dr. Ifeanyi Odii, co-founder of Ebele and Anyichuks Foundation, said the foundation has offered Chiagozie a scholarship to cover his education to tertiary level. In an interview, Odii told The Nation that he got interested in Chiagozie because he fell in the target group of the foundation’s intervention focus. “We have a foundation, the Ebele-  Anyichuks Foundation to help idigent and vulnerable children get back to school.  When we interviewed him, we discovered he dropped out of school because his parents could not pay his fees and he could not walk again and he became a liability to his family. “We gave him a scholarship to university level. We have created an endowment account for the boy worth N5 million to cover his education. In addition to the scholarship, Odii said the Foundation has supported Chiagozie’s parents with  N1 million to re-start their businesses, and plans to build a two-bedroom apartment for the family because they had no comfortable home. “We are building a two bedroom house for his family; they don’t have a house.  We supported the family with N1 million for micro-scheme business’’. When The Nation reached out to Mr Omisore regarding his promises to help, he said through his effort, Chiagozie got some donations from home and abroad.  He said he hands off the issue when Ebele and Anyichuks Foundation got involved, but reiterated his promise to help the boy get the prosthetic leg if he still needed it. “If the boy wants the leg, I can provide him with it.  I got an NGO to provide the leg.  It is the least of what I wanted to do for him,” he said. In an interview with The Nation Chiagozie’s father, Sunday, said he was already into his timber business. He noted that life had changed for the better for the family and Chiagozie does not need to hawk again for them to feed. “I am feeling happy now. I dey for that business,” he said in pidgin English. When asked about Chiagozie, he said: “Chiagozie no dey sell again.  Dem dey go lesson.  School  never open.  When school open, he go start.” Sunday also noted that his wife would soon start selling foodstuff to boost the family income. “She will start her own business.  She go sell tomatoes, beans and garri,” he said. However, he said he still needed more funds for his business to be profitable. “My business needs so much money now.  One trip na N850,000.  We still need more money to run it,” he said. Chiagozie is one very happy boy  that he does not have to hawk anymore.  However, he is still helps his father’s wood selling business. “I am very happy for this opportunity.  I am happy that I am no longer on the streets selling pure water.  I follow my Dad to his shop where he sells wood for buildings.  So you can see that my life is different.  I thank God for this.  God sent that foundation to come and save me and my family,” he said. Now that he has the chance to go back  to school, Chiagozie said he would be focused on his studies. “My wish had always been to go to the university.  I promise I will work hard to achieve the target.  I will not fail Ebele-Anyichuks Foundation. “I have started going to school.  I was going to school before.  I was in Primary Three there.  But because of this Coronavirus, I have not started going to school.  But when Coronavirus is over, schools will start and I will start too,” he said. 