 Yobe State government has stated the the fumigation of offices and public places as the number of cases of COVID-19 in the state rises. The Nation reports that the state index case was reported on Wednesday 28th April but the number has now increased to 13 after the two results released by the NCDC in the last 48 hours. Despite the rise in the number of cases in the state in less than one week, the State Committee on the Prevenytion and Control of the pandemic in the state which is headed by the State Deputy Governor, Hon. Idi Barde Gubana have not come up with any public statement to inform the people of the state of any new approach in containing the spread of the outbreak of the virus. Hon. Gubana last Thursday addressed the press where he announced the index case of a 29 year-old banker working with a new generation bank in the state and can called on the people to continue to follow the preventive protocols against the disease. The committee has however remained mum as the cases continue to rise. Flagging off the second phase of the De-contamination exercise, the Commissioner for Environment, Hon. Sidi Yakubu Karasuwa who is also the Chairman of the Sub-Committee on De-contamination said the committee has targeted all government and private offices, as well as public places including, motor parks, markets etc to mitigate the spread of the virus.  He disclosed that the first phase of the exercise was carried out across the seventeen Local Government areas of the state, adding that, “the exercise will be conducted in every two weeks until we finally defeat corona in our dear state”. The commissioner of Water Resources in the State, Sen. Alkali Jajare said the problem of water supply in Yobe State will be wholely addressed in less than two weeks. The Commissioner while responding to the questions on acute water supply in the state in the wake of the pandemic and the importance of water in the prevention of the virus said the governor has already tackled the problem with the appointment of a taskforce which he said has already revived 60 boreholes in the state capital out of one hundred. Our correspondent, observed that most of the boreholes in the state capital have been grounded with the resident resorting to purchasing water for commercial vendors at high prices.