A budding artiste, Marcel Obute, has described music star, David Adeleke (a.k.a. Davido), as an inspiration to many youths through his dedication, achievements and encouragement of young talents. Obute, with stage name, D Masel, said on Wednesday that Adeleke’s dedication to music was much. Obute, a student of music in the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos. He said that Adeleke encouraged young artistes to do their best. Obute called on other established artistes to emulate the famous musician in lifting young artistes. NAN reports that Adeleke, a singer, songwriter and record producer, is trending with his recent release of chat-topping songs. Obute said that Adeleke’s achievements had made him to be focused on his career. “My best artiste is Davido, the boss of Davido Music Worldwide. His dedication to music inspires me and makes me want to achieve more with music. “Davido also loves helping young artistes. He always says: ‘We rise by lifting others’. He does not hesitate to help young artistes especially if he sees that you have the passion and talent. “He signed in Mayorkun in 2014 following his effort in playing a piano version of one of his (Davido’s) oldest songs at the time. “Artistes like Davido are rare, and I believe he should be used as a point of reference for those losing focus on their musical career,” said. Obute advised those desiring to have a career in music to learn to play at least a musical instrument. According to him, playing a musical instrument gives an artiste relevance. Obute, who sings, plays keyboard, trumpet, guitar, drum set and some other instruments, said that passion for playing musical instruments led him to study music. “What inspired me to choose music is the passion I have for playing musical instruments. “I had always wanted to play a musical instrument. When I got a keyboard, my passion for music became unstoppable which led me into studying it as a course in the university. “It is a good thing to know how to sing and also handle musical instruments. Look at people such as the late Fela Anikulapo Kuti and Victor Olaiya, their relevance in the music industry was much,” he said.  (NAN)