If the posturing of some Christian religious leaders on the COVID-19 crisis is not properly handled, it may lead to the nurturing of wrong notions about the church and its leadership. For example, the discordant views that was expressed by some prominent church leaders in Nigeria – particular of the Pentecostal denomination – on the 5G technology is not a good commentary on Christianity in our part of the world. Till date, some church leaders are still very much opposed to the temporary ban on open church services, as one of the measures by government to contain the spread of the COVID-19 virus, but some of their colleagues have no problem with that, at all. There has been also the insinuation that some Pentecostal church leaders are against the ban because it denies them – or their churches – tithes and offerings. My take here is that Christians should not blackmail their leaders or allow themselves to be so used. Finally, we have also seen that some Christians are beginning to be skeptical over prophecies by some men of God, querying why they did not see the pandemic coming. My view here, however, is that Christians should not allow the COVID-19 crisis to diminish our faith, our belief in the efficacy of prayers and the fact that some people are gifted in prophecy. Now, following the so-called gradual relaxation of a five-week lockdown imposed by government at the end of March, the controversy over the position of the church on the COVID-19 pandemic has taken a new dimension. It is about whether the government is right in allowing markets to reopen while still keeping a ban on open church services. Two of Nigeria’s leading clerics, Bishop David Oyedepo, and Pastor Chris Oyakhilome, have reportedly made statements that have brought the church into the thick of the controversy. Said Oyedepo: “… I do not know … how hospitals where people die every day are open but the church is closed because the oppression of the devil has no medical cure”.  Oyedepo was further quoted as saying: “There is something wrong. For people to be allowed to be in the market for six hours and cannot be in church for two hours, it is an upside down way of looking at things. Which is more orderly? The market or the church?” Not unexpectedly, Oyedepo’s statements have attracted comments that are not quite complimentary to both the church, itself, and its leadership. Oyakhilome was reported as saying that wearing face masks is an “embarrassment” to science. “We should not wear masks in public”, Oyakhilome reportedly said. He also reportedly scolded his fellow clergymen for acceding to the closure of churches. “Clergymen who supported the closure of churches … have done a great disservice to the body of Christ … is the church of Jesus not a place of healing?”, he also reportedly said. The comments by these respected preachers is of concern to me because, apart from putting both the church and its leadership to a needless denigration, it is mundane to compare markets and churches. In any case, they, perhaps unknowingly, misrepresented government on the matter; and that is not a good example to show. What the government allowed is opening of “food markets” to enable the people to go and restock. Of course, Nigerians being what we are, that gesture is being abused, even as government, itself, should take the blame for not effectively policing the “gradual relaxation” of the lockdown. The directive on social distancing, adjudged, worldwide, as the most effective way of containing the spread of the virus, is being flagrantly violated not only in the so-called food markets but also in all public places. What I would rather expect our Pentecostal clergymen to insist on is for government to ensure that the markets are not as crowded as they have been since after the easing of the lockdown. In any case, is it not church members who go to the markets? The clergymen should be worried that Nigerians are not complying with the directives as they go about their private lives. As Oyedepo noted, worshippers would be in church for just two hours but what happens for the rest of the 22 hours of the day? In other words, you could put in place all the necessary measures during a church service just for a careless or carefree housewife to walk into a crowded market on her way home and contract the virus. The posturing of some of the clergymen tends to suggest that the government has singled out the church for particular mention. That should not be the impression at a time like this. The Word of God admonishes us to respect the authorities. “Let every soul subject unto the higher powers. For there is no power but of God. The powers that are ordained of God. Whoever therefore resisteth the power resisteth the ordinance of God …” (Romans 13: 1-2; Kings James). The New Living Translation (NLT) perhaps puts it more lucidly: “Everyone must submit to governing authorities. For all authority comes from God and those in positions of authority have been placed there by God. So, anyone who rebels against what God has instituted…” Under no circumstances, therefore, should church leaders speak or act in a manner that suggests that their followers should disobey government. What an irony! Rather, I expect church leaders to be hard on government for its apparent lack-lustre attitude to implementing measures it put in place, itself, on mitigating the COVID-19 disaster. There are so many lapses in the lockdown, itself, and the so-called relaxation. That should be of concern to our religious leaders since, as we have seen above, those now crowding out in the markets, the bus stops etc. are either church or mosque goers. Needless to say, we cannot afford to compound the problem by allowing a return to open religious services now, considering, especially, the fact that even with the measures so far taken, the number of recorded cases have continued to rise by the day In any case, the “ban” is on open “religious services”, not just Christian church services. Which means that mosques are also banned from conducting open services. And by the very nature of their mode of worship, social distancing may be a little more difficult to enforce during Jumat services, for example. So, if government lifts the ban on churches, it will also have to take the same measure on mosques and the nation can ill-afford that at the moment. Remarkably, leaders of the orthodox churches like Catholic and Anglican, have kept away from the controversy. Just as Oyakhilome and Oyedepo were quarreling over face masks and markets, a top clergy of the Anglican Communion, Archbishop Alexander Ibezim of the Niger Province, was appealing to the faithful to obey government’s directives on social distancing and wearing of face masks. When, at the heat of the lockdown, the government of Rivers State announced that churches could temporarily resume for Easter Sunday services, the Catholic Archdiocese of Port Harcourt told parishioners to remain in their houses. Just a fortnight ago, the Catholic Archdiocese of Warri in Delta State issued a similar directive to Catholics in the area to stay off formal worship sessions for now. I do not necessarily buy the idea that pastors who are putting pressure on government to lift the restriction on church services are doing so because they “miss” tithes and offerings. However, my fear is that unless this needless controversy is put in check, we may be inadvertently diminishing the mystery of tithes and offerings. Tithes and offerings are recommendable practices for Christians, at least because we use them to honour God; even though nonpayment of tithe, contrary to what some Pentecostal pastors preach, is not a sin. Therefore, we should, not trivialize these important tenets of our Christian faith by equating the church with a market place. The latter is what it is: A place of commerce. The former is not.