It is encouraging that members of the National Assembly have resumed plenary after about five weeks of recess immediately after the onset of COVID-19 pandemic, and as part of measures to curb the spread of the virus to members of the legislature, and by extension, the country. Resumption of face-to-face meeting by the Senate and the House of Representatives even at a time that the pandemic seems far from peaking is a salutary move by the lawmakers, especially that such physical gathering in enclosed units remains a risk to be avoided or minimised. The opening statements by the Senate President and Speaker of the House are, as should be, fittingly replete with encouragement to other branches of government and the citizenry. The Senate President’s opening remark is markedly optimistic: “We are confident that we shall soon overcome this crisis, like previous health emergencies. All hands will however have to be on deck to register a quicker and more resounding success…. The task before us is imperative and the responsibility of the legislator is even more important because of our closeness to the people” conveys the re-assurance that millions of people struggling with the pain of lockdown for weeks require to boost their confidence. The Speaker’s words are pragmatic and appropriate from lawmakers charged with providing oversight functions for executive actions, especially at a time of extreme national stress: “At times like this, there is a tendency for the existing fault lines of a nation to become dangerously exacerbated. The government must not be complicit, by acts of omission or commission in any such aggravations, as such will only make it more difficult to maintain the unity of purpose that is essential to our nation’s survival at this delicate time.” Furthermore, the Speaker deserves commendation for providing leadership for the establishment of lawmakers-driven COVID-19 Strategic Response Team (CRST) with a mandate to develop interventions and reforms, and to urge lawmakers to develop a proactive agenda in readiness for post-pandemic realities and priorities. Relatedly, we urge members of the National Assembly to collaborate on the making of an agenda to monitor programmes proposed by the executive to fight the pandemic successfully in line with recommendations from the two legislative leaders.  We plead with political parties for rational bipartisanship in both chambers as the country fights the pandemic. While all perspectives about confronting such a national disaster deserve airing, lawmakers across party lines need to keep their eyes on the ball: ridding the country of coronavirus pandemic in good time. The National Assembly should cooperate fully with the executive in the search for effective ways to alleviate the suffering of millions of vulnerable citizens, even as the lockdown in most states is being partially lifted. Further, efforts to improve the country’s testing capacity ought to be a part of the priorities of the legislature as its members return to work. Acknowledgment of the executive’s response to the pandemic and its concern about the short- and long-term impact of COVID -19 are appropriate as government leaders look for answers to the disease and its implications for post-pandemic life in the country. We appreciate the risk of lawmakers’ return to duty despite the risk involved in such option even as the country’s curve seems to be just rising, and urge that the National Assembly members find methods to achieve better social distancing in future meetings. This can be done by expanding the facilities for digital plenary meetings. Close monitoring of all anti-pandemic programmes remains crucial to the success of the country’s efforts to defeat the coronavirus pandemic.