At 90 years, Ambassador Akparode Clark remains active and vibrant. That can only be because of the grace of God; so, we join his family and compatriots to wish him a happy birthday. Ambassador Clark who had an illustrious career in the diplomatic world clocked 90 years on April 16. He is an alumnus of Government College, Ugheli, the University College, Ibadan, and Woodrow Wilson International Centre for Scholars, Smithsonian Institution Washington DC. He teed off his superlative career in 1957, in the public service of Western Nigeria, where he worked as administrative secretary in the ministries of economic development; health and social welfare; trade, finance and establishment; education; agriculture and natural resources, and lastly in the Premier’s Office. In 1961, he was transferred to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, starting off as First Secretary and Head of Chancery, the Embassies of Nigeria in Liberia and Guinea. He moved over to New Delhi, India, in 1962 as Secretary and Head of Chancery. By 1963, he was the secretary in charge of the Organisation of African Unity, Ministry of foreign Affairs, in Lagos, and became the head of African Mission, by 1964. The diplomatic swing took him to the Permanent Mission of Nigeria to the United Nations, New York, where he served as Counsellor and Head of Chancery, and by 1966, he became the alternate representative of Nigeria to the Security Council of the United Nations. After a stint as under-secretary of special duties, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Lagos, Ambassador Clark matured into his first ambassadorial posting as Ambassador of Nigeria to Switzerland, Austria and Turkey, as well as the Permanent Representative of Nigeria to the Office of the United Nations at Geneva, from 1973-1977. That eventuated into the era of Gen. Murtala Muhammed, champion of Africa as centre of Nigeria’s foreign policy, who stated without equivocation that Africa had come of age, in international affairs. As one of the topmost Nigerian diplomats sought after on any major international issue, Ambassador Clark returned to lead Nigeria’s diplomatic mission in Ethiopia, the headquarters of the Organisation of African Unity, from 1977-1979. Thereafter, Clark served as Ambassador and Permanent Representative of Nigeria to the United Nations, New York, from 1979-1981. In-between his years as permanent representative, he served as the Representative of Nigeria to the Security Council from 1979-1980. After 20 years of distinguished and glittering career as one of Nigeria’s top diplomats, Ambassador Clark returned to serve as Director-General in the Ministry of External Affairs, Lagos, from 1981-1984, and thereafter he was appointed the Regional Representative for Africa of the United Nations Commissioner for Namibia, from 1984-1990; and subsequently, he became the special political representative of the United Nation’s Secretary-General for Namibia in Angola from 1989-1990. He rounded off his most exciting diplomatic service in the Ministry of External Affairs as Director of the Multinational Programming and Operational Centre (MULPOC) at Niamey, Niger Republic, responsible for economic integration of the 16 West African states. Ambassador Clark remains a strong voice in the diplomatic circles, and a visible member of his old boys associations, amongst other engagements. While holding forte at his various missions, he distinguished himself in international mediation and arbitration. He also served as chairman and head of delegation of several missions of the United Nations, the Organisation of African Unity and the Non-Aligned Movement. We congratulate Ambassador Clark, the Olorogun, Ugnhegbe of Ogor Kingdom; Chief, Ogeukereowei of Ngbilebiri Kingdom; and a Commander of the Order of Niger, on his 90th birthday and wish him many happy returns.