The Rivers State government (RSG) has said it is yet to decide on the possibility of online classes for third term for the 2019/2020 academic session for primary and secondary schools. Commissioner for Education Prof. Kaniye Ebeku, spoke while reacting to an alleged imposition of N50,000 levy on public and  private schopls in the state to be able to hook up to the e-class portal of the  state, said there is no such directives from the state ministry of education to that effect. Describing the accusation as handiwork of mischief makers, Prof. Ebeku said, the state has not printed any educational material, either in form of CD plate or otherwise for sale to students in the state, urging parents and guardians to ignore such information, insisting that, decision is yet to be reached on whether or not third term classes in the state will resume online, as the government is yet to resolve some critical issues that could affect smooth holding of online classes in the state to the benefit of all. He said: “The attention of the Rivers State Ministry of Education has been drawn to a fake news being peddled on social media by mischief makers, that the Ministry has ordered public and private schools in the state to pay the sum of N50,000 each for online classes and also directed the purchase of DVDs by pupils and students at the cost of N1, 200, only. “The ministry wants to state categorically that the said information is false and should be discountenanced. “We have not at any time issued any of such directive, formally or informally. “The ministry has no CD to sell, won’t sell any of such and has not authorised anyone to sell such to pupils and students”. “Consultations with stakeholders are still ongoing on the issue of feasibility of online resumption for third term, and the ministry has only advised schools to check the UBEC website and use free online platform for their teaching. “The general public is  strongly advised to ignore the said directives, as they do not reflect the position of the Rivers State Ministry of Education. “People should please cross-check information before publishing, be rest assured that the Ministry of Education, as a responsible Sstate agency, will not give insensitive or irresponsible directives”.he concluded.