The Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) has performed the foundation laying ceremony for construction of its national secretariat in Maitama area of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Abuja. NMA National President, Professor Francis Faduyile, said the association went through hell before it could clear the legal hurdles surrounding the land where the building is being sited. He commended members of the association, its Local Organising Committee (LOC), the Building Committee headed by Dr Frank Odafe and other stakeholders for their resoluteness and doggedness in seeing that building the national secretariat of the association became reality. Faduyile, who recalled that although there was foundation laying ceremonies for the national Secretariat in the past, this will be last, stressing that the NMA will see to it that the construction of the building. He commended Dutum Company Limited, the company in charge of the construction of the building, for having the technical know-how and wherewithal to execute the project. “I am happy that today is happening. I return all glory to God that this foundation laying ceremony finally came to past. There have been series of promises and foundation laying ceremony in the past on the construction of a befitting secretariat for NMA but I can assure you this is the last. “Today is the ground breaking, by the grace of God, none of us will die, and we shall be alive to witness the ground opening ceremony of this building in two years to come. “I salute our contractor, Mr. Temitope Runsewe and his team at Dutum Construction Company Limited for their determination to go out by all lawful means to ensure this project is completed within stipulated time,” Faduyile said. Responding on behalf of the construction company, its Managing Director, Mr. Tope Runsewe, thanked the leadership of the NMA for the confidence reposed in them. He assured they would deploy all the professionalism at the company’s disposal to ensure that the building is completed in due course according to specifications.