The Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP), Senior Staff Association of Nigeria Polytechnics (SSANIP), and Non-Academic Staff Union (NASU) in the Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH) have appealed to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to appoint a popular candidate for the vacant Rector position. The Nation learnt that the tenure of Samuel Oluyinka Sogunro ends at the weekend. A joint statement by the unions also urged the governor to constitute a Governing Council for the polytechnic. The cautioned against appointing allies of the outgoing Rector. According to them, it will be suicidal to give these Sogunro’s compatriots any iota of consideration on their applications. The union said: “The unions do not expect them to scale the first hurdle in the process. Any mistake of appointing anyone of the two will bring final doom on the polytechnic. Besides, our investigation revealed that these two applicants have deficiencies in their academic qualifications and career progression requirements for the position. “We are also aware that some of the applicants are not from the polytechnic sector. These sets of applicants are not to be given consideration because the vacancy advertisement specifically requires applications from those in the polytechnic sector. “Sir, while we are not making a case against a Rector coming from outside our polytechnic, we do not desire any legal obstructions in the appointment process. We consider it appropriate that the rules of the game are adhered to. Also, bringing a Rector from outside the polytechnic sector limits the career advancement of eligible academics in the polytechnics.” According to them, Governor Sanwo-Olu should appoint a Rector that will command the loyalty and respect of all stakeholders in the institution. They said: “Sir, it will not be out of place if the usual final three candidates selected are subjected to a further rating by the staff and students which will inform the choice of the Visitor. We know that this is a ‘tall’ request, but you will agree that no amount of efforts is too much to sacrifice for peace. “These will go a long way in limiting the persistence crises bedevilling our tertiary institution. It is of public knowledge that virtually all the tertiary institutions in the state are into a form of crisis and some of which arise from bad governance. Towards this end, we sincerely recommend that a clause addressing acceptability of the head to be appointed should be included in Laws establishing our tertiary institutions.”