 PwC Nigeria has spent N100 million to support the battle against the COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria. According to a statement by the firm, the COVID-19 intervention fund tagged “PwC Cares” is in line with the firm’s purpose of building trust in society and solving important problems, consisting of some initiatives targeted at various sections of the society, including vulnerable households, health workers and small businesses. Country and Regional Senior Partner for PwC in West Africa, Uyi Akpata, said: “As well as having serious implications for people’s health and the healthcare services, COVID-19 is having a significant impact on businesses and the economy, particularly for Nigeria at this time given our dwindling resources and high level of poverty. As a firm, we are supporting a number of initiatives aimed at addressing the health and economic challenges in Nigeria. Notably, we are supporting the CBN led Coalition Against COVID-19 by the setup of a Project Management Office and providing project monitoring and evaluation support valued at about N50 million in the first instance. ‘’We are also providing food items to at least 5,500 vulnerable households, as well as personal protective equipment (PPEs) for frontline healthcare workers in the following states; Lagos, Ogun, Imo, Edo, Kaduna, Akwa Ibom, Kano and the FCT.”  The firm noted that the donations of food items and medical materials worth N50 million was made possible through voluntary donations from her partners, staff members and alumni community. This is, in addition to pro bono complementary business continuity support services to small businesses employing between five and 50 employees. Akpata added: “It is clear that we still have a long way to go and we continue to learn to deal with the challenges. Therefore, now more than ever before, we see that partnerships between stakeholders especially between public and private sector, is key to success. This is why in addition to the 100 million fund, we have also set up a Covid-19 Knowledge Centre accessible via our website to support federal and state governments in their economic responses to the pandemic.” The firm has demonstrated her   resolve to help organisations and government respond to the pandemic and has hosted free webinars on the economic implications and policy responses to COVID-19. 