 It is trite that every new situation comes with its own challenges. So it is with the current war against the corona virus COVID-19 pandemic. With the pandemic are emerging issues in the way we hitherto lived our lives; new challenges in our socio-political organization, new tests in the way we conduct business, run our schools and engage in virtually every other human endeavor. It is akin to a war situation that is bound to produce new outcomes. But it is not a conventional warfare with defined territories. There are neither armies nor ammunitions in deploy for the war. This war has no boundaries and does not discriminate between races and peoples. It is an invisible war where no shots are fired. Yet, its lethality is only comparable to situations of biological or chemical warfare. Fighting such war is bound to be very daunting. That is why even with the sophistication of the advanced countries in warfare, they have found themselves routed by this armless and invisible enemy. So it is that many of them have found themselves virtually helpless in the face of the ravaging virus. The situation is bound to be more tasking for developing countries such as ours with weak institutions and weak structures. Faced with these challenges, the new reality is recommending new ways of doing virtually every old thing and our hapless citizens are expected to align themselves. It is an entirely new beginning that fits into the category of the Khunian revolution. It calls for paradigm shift. That accounts for the plethora of protocols rolled out by the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, and the various state governments to redirect the way we hitherto conducted our lives. The overall objective being to flatten the curve of the disease spread and save humanity from annihilation. The various levels of government, their agencies and personnel have put in a lot even at the risk of personal lives to ensure the lethal disease does not consume our people. Of special concerns are all categories of health workers who have put their lives at grave risk just to save the lives of victims of the pandemic. Some of them working under difficult conditions, have contracted the disease and even lost their lives in the course of saving human lives. All these sacrifices must to be appreciated especially given the non availability of personal protective equipments at the initial stages of the pandemic. But there are emerging issues from our strategies to the war that must be addressed else they diminish some of the progress made. There are increasing doubts in the minds of the discerning public on some of the issues arising from the management of the pandemic. When these are juxtaposed against skepticisms in some quarters on the reality of the viral disease, it is to be imagined the damage they can do to the efforts to contain the disease. No doubt, the confidence of the people is vital to the overall success of the war against the disease. The general public must buy into the sincerity of the campaign. They must believe in all they are being told about the viral disease to respect and abide by all the protocols to keep it at check. Creating doubts in the minds of the citizens on account of actions or inactions of governments and their agencies is not helping matters especially in a clime many are still finding it difficult to observe the rules of the time. We are faced with conflicting signals when we hear Kogi State government accuse unnamed people of attempting to force fictitious COVID-19 figures on the state for political reasons. This is even as the state government maintains that no person has tested positive for the viral disease. It has also rebuffed all attempts by the NCDC to come into the state to verify the claims. This altercation is unhealthy given the circumstance of the time. But more seriously, it raises eyebrows as to whether Kogi State is privy to some information that the coming of the NCDC will herald the discovery of COVID-19 afflicted persons. Perhaps, there is something the state government knows that is not readily available to the discerning public. Whatever it is, the quarrel is not serving the course of the campaign because of the credibility issues it has thrown up.  If a state government could bandy such weighty allegations, there may be more to the COVID-19 pandemic campaign than ordinarily meets the eyes. Before now, many have lived in self-doubt about the reality of the viral disease. That accounts in the main, for the scant regard for the protocols that will aid the authorities win the war against the pandemic. Such doubts are bound to worsen with claims emanating from Kogi State. The federal government must come clear on what the issues are with the Kogi State government. We need to know the source of the fictitious figures and the purpose they intend to serve. There was also the demonstration in Gombe State by isolated patients who took to the highways because they were not being cared for. Their grouse was that they spent days in the isolation centre without being attended to or have drugs administered on them. Some of them who spoke to the media even doubted they had the viral disease. But the relevant authorities claimed that all those at that centre were asymptomatic. Even if that was the case, they should have been taken into confidence about the state of their ailment. Treating them in a manner that predisposed them to suspicion and subsequent demonstrations left a sour taste in the mouth. It not only created doubts in the minds of the people but reinforced the suspicion that there may be other reasons to the high figures being churned out from some quarters. Such doubts are even reinforced with the mingling of villagers with the demonstrating isolated patients. The impression those villagers will take away from the unfortunate incident is that all that is being said about the viral disease may after all be a fluke. The Gombe incident is inexorably linked to the Benue indent case. The woman had alleged in a video that went viral that she had sent 43 days in isolation without treatment. The ‘patient’ who was taken into custody on her return from abroad, disputed claims that she had the viral disease. She bandied damaging allegations against the Benue State government and called for an independent inquisition into her case. Though the Benue State government denied some of her claims, issues relating to that incident have at best, been shrouded in secrecy. But they add to the growing suspicion on the sincerity of the management of the pandemic. Nothing however, illustrates more vividly the growing credibility issues on the management of the pandemic than the altercation between the Lagos State Commissioner for Health Prof. Akin Abayomi and returnees from Dubai currently in isolation. This followed the announcement by the commissioner that one of the returnees from Dubai died of the viral disease. Some of the returnees have disputed this claim. According to them, the person that died returned in a wheel chair after undergoing a surgery in Dubai. But instead of sending him to the hospital, he was isolated with others until his situation deteriorated. They contended that had the patient been sent to the hospital earlier, he may not have died even as they dispute the claim by the commissioner that he died of the viral disease. Nothing has again been heard of the face-off between the commissioner and the returnees after the former visited their hotel. Neither has anything been heard of the disputed health conditions of the dead returnee nor the actual cause of his death. The public is left to decide which side of the story to believe. Unfortunately such yawning gaps in information management do not help the course of the war against the pandemic. Is it surprising that there are emerging doubts on the credibility of the tests being run by the relevant agencies? It is important to eliminate the sources of these doubts and firm up the confidence of the people in the credibility of the exercise. This is the surest way to enhance the success of the war in a predominantly illiterate and poor setting where governments are hardly trusted. 