The State Government of Osun said it plans to diversify its economy into agriculture and mining as part of its post COVID-19 economic revival strategies. This was contained a statement by the Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, Mrs. Funke Egbemode, after the fifth virtual State Executive Council meeting, held yesterday. Mrs. Egbemode said the EXCO agreed to empower 5764 farmers to grow cassava, cotton and engage in fish farming, with the help of the Central Bank of Nigeria, stating that 12 Local Government Areas have also earmarked  about 2000 hectares of agricultural land in addition to the existing farm settlements across the state. Speaking on the state’s immediate agricultural intervention, Mrs.Egbemode said: “On Thursday May 21, the state will be flagging off its planting season. It has already moved farming equipment into its Ila Farm Settlement”. “At the launching, the State Government will be distributing improved seedlings, pesticides and herbicides, knapsack sprayers, among other things,  to  improve yields of farmers in the state. The State Government will also train 1000 farmers in  specialized farming”, she added. On mining, she said the Gold Buying Centre in Osu was ready, saying the state is set to maximize the economic benefit of the Centre. She quoted the Governor , Adegboyega Oyetola, as saying: “Mining is the new frontier of the economy of Osun. The State Government is therefore planning to maximize the sector and reap maximum benefit from it.” On actions so far taken against illegal miners, Oyetola said the state was not interested in witch-hunting anyone, rather, it wants to regulate mining activities within the State. He said : “If we do not sanitise the sector and take out illegal miners, we may end up like other countries that are now dealing with the negative consequences and concepts  of illegal trade of natural resources ‘like blood diamond’ . “We are determined to weed out illegal and inimical elements, and out to stop  negative implications such as environmental degradation in the State”, Governor Oyetola added. 