Professor Jonathan Aremu is a Professor of International Economic Relations at the Covenant University (CU), Ota, Nigeria and a consultant at the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) on Common Investment Market, Abuja, among other multilateral agencies. In this interview with Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf he speaks on the implications of the falling oil prices on Nigeria and offers suggestions on the way forward. Excerpts: What is the implication of the falling oil prices on the economy? With the drastic tumbling price and unpredictable demand contraction facing the oil sector, coupled with COVID-19, there is urgent need to look into Nigerian economy and make urgent necessary adjustments that cut across the entire national public and private governance structure. Both the falling prices of crude oil, which is the main income earner for Nigerian economy, and the coronavirus pandemic is already having negative effects on the country’s main macroeconomic variables such as the exchange rate, price level, employment and growth. Thankfully, to achieve a return to the previous tradition of running the budget from January to December for better implementation and performance, the National Assembly worked on the appropriation bill presented it to the President before the end of 2019. But the speedy passage of the 2020 budget by the government appears meaningless with the global threat of coronavirus as well as the drastic collapse in the crude oil prices. The unpredictable time of exit of these twin problems suggest that there may not be any quick-fix solutions in sight; suggesting the need for fundamental structural changes in the economic governance. While the 2020 budget was benchmarked on an oil price assumption of $57 per barrel and oil production of 2.18m barrel per day; with the outbreak of coronavirus, the price has gone down to ridiculous level today showing that the economy may earn nothing in the next few months from the product. With the global COVID-19 disaster, the time for the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to discuss cutting production to raise price appears to be irrelevant now. Since the money from oil accounts for about 60 per cent of our revenue and 90 per cent of our foreign exchange, the running and sustenance of Nigerian economy is determined by crude oil price. Furthermore, without the knowledge of the emergence of COVID-19 and falling prices of crude oil, budget 2020 is already a deficit one. Clearly, there is no way the federal government can mitigate the effects of these issues on the economy without drastic decisions; and the need to borrow more than what we envisaged in the budget may not even be a good option as well, unless the conditions for such borrowing will guarantee sustainable development of the economy. Unfortunately, we don’t know how long the coronavirus will stay, but from what the World Health Organisation (WHO) is saying, it is not disappearing now. Currently, the pandemic has resulted to lockdown of productive activities; and government can only try its best to contain it, but before everybody gets back to life, it will take some time. Even then, since the pandemic affects all sectors of the global economy, a lot of resources to fight it are required even in Nigeria. In other words, substantial budgetary provisions that would have been used to develop Nigeria economy are being deployed to contain the virus at a time when the sector that contributes substantially to the national revenue is in distress. How soon do you think the economy can recover from the shock of the global oil price crash? Clearly, the pace of Nigerian economic recovery from the ills of coronavirus and declining oil price remains abysmally slow, as declining real incomes and weak investment continue to weigh on economic activity, while external vulnerabilities remain on the increase, reflecting a higher account deficit and declining reserves that remain highly vulnerable to capital flow reversal; all of these would have negative implications on the national growth, price and exchange rate stability as well as employment. In other words, worsening oil prices and a falling exchange rate will create a further fiscal crisis, imports will become more expensive and inflation pressures will rise, productive sector wobble, unemployment and poverty will worsen and our external reserves further depleted. What would you suggest as a way forward? There is urgent need to re-organise our priorities, at both the executive and parliamentary arms of governance. The wastages in the executive arm in terms of overlapping of jurisdictions of activities in governance must be urgently restructured and remunerations for unnecessary activities removed forthwith such as reduction in the numbers of the Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs). On the parliamentary side, the costs of maintaining this arm of governance is out of tune with the current realities. The question is: Does it means that even if we earn nothing from the oil, the National Assembly as still qualified for their jumbo remunerations; while the productive sectors of our national economy is on recess? We must be bold enough re-prioritise in the context of increasing dwindling of national resources. Coupled with the restructuring at the governance levels are other actions to such as: selective fiscal and monetary stimulus in areas that will have an immediate positive impact on our national productivities in all sectors. In addition, there is an urgent need to abandon the current protectionist trade and so as to improve the business climate. The current national debt profile is definitely not sustainable to growth; thus, outright cancellation as well as rescheduling should be embarked upon with the assistance of support from the global economic governance institutions.