  Behind every cloud, they say, there is a silver lining. That much is true of the dark cloud the spread of the deadly coronavirus constitutes to humanity. While the virus has infected millions of people worldwide and caused the deaths of hundreds of thousands others, it is not only a story of gloom and tragedy as it has led to a turnaround in the fortunes of many people, particularly in Nigeria where facemask business is booming among neighbourhood tailors. Clearly, the storm that brought disaster into the paths of some is clearing the paths of others to good fortune. Samson Ademuyiwa was shocked a few days ago when his wife, Omolola, offered to loan him the sum of N35,000 for the family to restock their home with food. Samson, a 42-year-old electrical contractor, had been left crestfallen after his hope of recovering the sum of N60,000 a client owed him was dashed. The said client had hinged his inability to pay the Oyo born contractor on the lockdown arising from the coronavirus pandemic. Omolola’s gesture came at a time the family had exhausted their stock of foodstuffs, prompting Samson, a father of three who also had three other relatives holidaying in his apartment, to leave his Abule Egba, Lagos home for his debtor’s place in the hope that that latter would pay his debt. He, however, returned home disappointed. Understandably, the frown on his face gave way to a smile when Omolola, a backstreet tailor, told him that she could afford to assist him with N35,000. Whatever doubt he nursed about Omolola’s gesture vanished after he took her in his car to the Automated Teller Machine (ATM) of a nearby branch of a commercial bank to withdraw the said sum and subsequently bought the needed food items from the nearby Ile Epo Market. Omolola would later reveal to her husband that the money she withdrew from the ATM was the proceeds of the numerous facemasks she had sewn and sold since the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. Omolola said: “At the onset of the lockdown, I was lamenting that customers had stopped bringing fabrics for me to sew for them. In the first week of the lockdown, I returned home empty-handed each time I went to my shop because there were no clothes to sew. But the awareness about facemasks changed all that as emergency traders started bringing materials for me to sew face masks which they in turn sold to other people. “It is from the jobs that I have so far made more than N50,000 as people keep thronging my shop because of my creative designs, which include using designer jeans, damask, ankara and satin fabrics to sew face masks. “Now, I work very late. I have also had to engage my apprentices more than their work hours just so we can deliver the masks to my teeming customers. “It was a woman in my neighbourhood who introduced me to a trader in Oshodi. The trader had liked the design of a mask the neighbour bought from me and subsequently contracted me to sew special masks for her and another friend of hers. “I sew between 2,000 and 4,000 masks weekly and they even pay me in full before collecting their jobs. The pandemic has really affected social life and I pray that it should end before long. But it has been a blessing in disguise because I am making good money every week.” But Omolola is not the only tailor that has found a ‘gold mine’ in the production of face masks. There are others like 40-year-old Lydia Osarewhen who has been making good money from the business too. The Edo born tailor and single mother of three, who plies her trade in the Agege part of Lagos, said the business was the only thing that had kept her home intact. Osaremwhen said: “In the last few weeks, I have produced thousands of face masks for traders around here. Face masks have become good business. I constantly get orders from traders. It was from the proceeds of the jobs that I was able to renew my rent of N50,000. Even my landlord was shocked that I paid without delay for the first time. “Since customers have stopped bringing their personal fabrics and aso ebi (ceremonial uniforms) because the ban on social functions is still in place, face mask production has become a huge compensation for me. “It has more than put the food on my table as I have been able to do charity or palliatives for poor neighbours as well.’’ For another fashion designer, Hakeem Owolabi, the risk he took veering into face mask production has paid off in the last few days. Before then, Owolabi, who runs a shop off Afariogun Street in Ikeja, had suffered low patronage for his craft. But the 38-year-old artisan said that face mask production has brought him good money lately. He said: “But for the money I have been making from producing face masks, I wonder how I would have been able to cope with the lockdown. “The precautions against the spread of coronavirus pandemic, including social distancing and ban on public gatherings, have put a stop to parties and social events on account of which people usually bring fabrics for us to sew. “The pandemic had affected my income level so much so that I had to beg some of my friends for money to stock up food in my house, until I was introduced to face mask production by a colleague and it has been a profitable venture so far. “Now I make between N5,000 and N7,000 weekly from face masks because my designs are very catchy. In fact, my customers who sell the masks in parts of the metropolis have deposited money for their jobs so that I can deliver the masks on time.” A tailor around the Railway Line area in Agege, Hashmi Ibrahim, said he had switched to making face masks after seeing the huge sums his contemporaries were making from the venture. “If you cannot beat them, you join them,” he said. “Since customers have stopped patronising us, I decided that the best thing was to join my colleagues who have switched to the production of face masks and making plenty money from it. “I have since been making money from masks. I make between N5,000 and N6,000 weekly because the vendors who sell the masks have become so many so that I now close late from my shop, which is right behind my residence.’’ Like their counterparts in Lagos neighbourhoods, production and sale of face masks is a booming business for tailors and hawkers in the ancient city of Kano, the commercial nerve centre of northern Nigeria. Even before Monday’s flag-off of the distribution of two million face masks to eight metropolitan local government areas by Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, the use of the safety masks had suddenly become trendy in Kano, opening new business opportunities to both tailors and vendors who now use it to make a living. The massive awareness created by the state government on the harsh realities of COVID-19 pandemic coupled with their personal experiences has encouraged residents of the ancient commercial city to use face masks, among other precautions, to prevent being infected with the deadly virus. Buoyed by the fashion grandeur associated with it, not a few Kano residents now sew face masks to reflect the colour of their dresses. In the Fagge and Sabon Gari axis known for clusters of professional tailors, face mask business is enjoying a boom. Tailors in those areas are not only jostling to win contracts from religious organisations, they are also doing so from private individuals and organizations who place orders for masks which they in turn donate to people. Face masks of different shapes and sizes have since flooded markets in various parts of Kano metropolis. Although many of them are poorly produced, residents are buying them even at exorbitant prices. An inferior face mask in Kano is sold between N300 and N500 while a fairly good one is sold between N700 and N1,500. A popular tailor at Fagge, Malam Abdullahi Haruna, told The Nation that he was making “real money” from face mask production. He said he had for now abandoned sewing plain clothes for mask production because the demand for the latter is high and the profit margin is very encouraging. “Business has not been bad. Before this COVID-19 thing, I was selling recharge cards and making very little profit. But since I started this face mask business, my life has changed for the better,” a hawker, Ibrahim Shuabu, said. A teenage face mask vendor around Brigade Quarters in Gama, Jibrin Mustapha, 13, said: “I derive pleasure in selling face masks. I started the business recently. My elder brother named Mubarak, a tailor, introduced me to it. “With the lockdown, l move from place to place to sell the masks, and I make between N1,000 to N1,500 daily. “Mallam Abdullahi Tele of Bakin Kasuwa, Gama, Brigade Quarters, said his face mask trade has brought him good fortune in the last few weeks. “I am into massive production of face masks for sale. I sold out to hawkers at N50. With one yard of textile material, I can produce 10 pieces of them. “I make between N5,000 and N10,000 weekly, depending on how business moves. With this, I am happy that I have something doing rather than being redundant.’’ Since the index case of COVID-19 in Nigeria surfaced in Ewekoro, Ogun State, on February 27 and the subsequent lockdown of the state like other parts of Nigeria, businesses had taken a downward turn before the use of facemasks turned the tide for many business-minded people in the state. Mr Femi Osipitan, an Abeokuta-based fashion designer, believes that the COVID-19 pandemic is a blessing in disguise as he has redirected his energy from sewing designer wears to making facemasks. He said the diversification was a response to the demands of the time and was helped the more by state and federal governments’ directives mandating everybody to wear a facemask in public, creating a veritable market for facemasks in the process. He said he makes facemasks according to the order placed by clients. He said since facemask became an issue, he had employed two persons to help him handle the volume of orders that come. Although he was silent on his profit margin, he said one of the boys he engaged earns N3,000 daily while the other, an apprentice, earns N1,000 per day. Osipitan reckoned that if one aggregates the N3,000 daily for a month, the figure surpasses the national minimum wage, leaving the readers to make their own inferences on face masks business. He said: “COVID – 19 and the lockdown have affected people’s demand. I am into fashion business but nobody comes anymore asking to buy clothes or sew trousers or shirts. The emphasis now is on what will help them to stay safe and alive. So, I have diversified into making facemasks since that is what people buy out of necessity. And because of the federal and state governments’ instruction on face masks, people are also asking for it. “I produce based on order. The order can be three dozens, six dozens or more at a time. I have employed two persons to assist me in the production. While I pay one N3,000 daily to one, the other earns N1000 daily. Put that together for a month and think of the national minimum wage,” he said. Also, Najeem Bello, another tailor in Abeokuta, told The Nation that he had thought that all was lost because of the lockdown until he hit on the idea of making facemasks. Bello, who spoke through an interpreter, said he made his first trial from the remnants of fabrics from customers’ materials and came out with 250 pieces of facemasks at the end of the cutting and sewing. The young tailor added that he could not believe his eyes when he became over N40,000 richer in a twinkle of an eye by sewing and selling facemasks. “Even before the issue of coronavirus came about, the Abeokuta economy is a conservative one compared to Lagos. People sew clothes only if there is a major festival or party like wedding. The situation shrank further with coronavirus and the lockdown. “Since there is no more party or social gathering, nobody comes to us to make new dresses. But the facemasks became the door opener for us to work and earn money fast. I produce face masks, sell and see my returns immediately. “This period is a blessing for me. There is money in it because everybody is asking for facemask. So, the market is there for us. I make more money now producing face masks, unlike what obtained in the pre-lockdown era.” In Minna, the Niger State capital, tailors and vendors are laughing all the way to the banks following the boom in facemask business. The state government had made the use of facemask compulsory for residents and security agents are not taking it lightly with defaulters. Vendors, mostly teenagers, cluster at junctions to sell their masks made of poor and high quality textile materials to passers-by and motorists. The masks sell between N150 and N500. The vendors are usually seen at the gates of the Kure Ultra-Modern Market, banks or other organizations. Bank customers usually buy from these vendors just to be allowed into banking hall. At the Kure Ultra-Modern Market, law enforcement agents sometimes do not allow people without facemasks into the market, hence they are forced to patronise mask vendors at the gate. One of the teenage vendors, identified simply as Yusuf, who said he was helping his mother to sell facemasks, said: “I have to help my mother. You know that there is no much work and if I sell plenty of this, it will help us buy something for us to eat at home.” The proprietor of Mega House of Fashion in Minna, Ms Elizabeth Ezekiel, says she produces no fewer than 80 pieces of facemasks daily, which she distributes based on orders from organisations, with prices ranging between N250 and N300. Another tailor, Rachel Waziri, noted that residents were reluctant to buy the masks until government made it compulsory, leading to a surge in her production and sales. “That was when people started coming to buy from me. Those who want to distribute to residents also patronise me. But that was two weeks ago. In the beginning, we made about 10 facemasks daily. But now, we make like 50 pieces daily because people are still buying.” Rising demand for facemasks by residents of Ado-Ekiti, Ikere-Ekitiand other parts of Ekiti State has also provided a fairly impressive income for fashion designers and traders, who have been counting their blessings with massive production and sales of the masks. A tailor in Ado Ekiti, Oyetunji Jamiu, said he decided to venture into facemask business as the only alternative to sustain his family. He said: “Our fashion designing business, like other businesses, has been negatively affected since the total lockdown directed by government over the COVID-19 pandemic. “We hardly see customers coming forward due to the lockdown. But with this facemask business, things have improved a bit. “At least with the little profit coming from it, I have been able to put food on the table for my family.” Tawakalitu Gidado, a tailor and a mother of three, says she produces about 15 facemasks daily at N200 each. She noted that the business had impacted positively on her income. “The masks are easy to produce because they don’t require much material and don’t cost much. The income is enough to cater for the needs of my family. Today alone, I have sold 12 masks worth N2,400, and that is fair enough,” she said. Mistura Banire, a tailor in Okini, Egbedore Local Government Area, Osun State, said: “We have set aside aso ebi (ceremonial uniforms) for now. Before the coronavirus pandemic, patronage was encouraging. But the directive banning social gathering and the lockdown directive has affected our patronage negatively. “The lockdown directive affected me so badly that I could not even afford food. But after the lockdown lapsed and the use of facemask was made compulsory by the Osun State Government I started producing facemasks. “One of my friends informed me that the governor in a broadcast made facemasks compulsory and I was elated. “With the entrepreneurship skills I got from the internet, I started producing facemasks from the pieces of cloths I had in my shop. Thereafter, I started going to the market to buy materials to use for the production. “My younger ones and their friends help me in selling the masks owing to the fact that they are idle as a result of the closure of their schools.’’ Another tailor identified simply as Jayjay in Osogbo,the state capital, said his apprentices who are school children now sew facemasks and sell at Ola-Iya Junction. He said: “My apprentices and their friends now sew facemasks and hawk at different junctions. The cost of producing one is N60 and they sell them between N100 and N120.’’ A student of Okini Grammar School identified as Samuel told our correspondent that he makes about N600 from the sales of facemasks daily. “My sister is a tailor who produces facemasks and she always gives them to me to sell to commuters at Eyitayo Junction in Agunbelewo and at Oke-Fia in Osogbo. I have friends numbering 14 and we sell the masks at different junctions and streets in Osogbo,” Samuel said. In Port Harcourt, Rivers State capital, facemasks come in prices ranging from N250 to N1,000, depending on quality, style and size. Ironically, most vendors or hawkers of the masks do not wear them. A tailor near the new market on Bende Street, Johnbull Ogiong, said he switched over to facemask production following a lull in his business since the lockdown, especially the ongoing 24-hour curfew in Port Harcourt. “Since the government made the announcement that facemask is compulsory for everyone, I started making it. And it is very easy to make. People are buying the masks and they are very cheap. I have the ones of N100 and N200. “I am making profit from it. It is helping me and my family in terms of buying foodstuffs to survive the lockdown. If government didn’t make it compulsory, I don’t know where I would have got money from to feed my family.” Ada Ojo, a seamstress at Sandfill Borokiri, said: “I started making facemasks for my customers for free, but people started coming to ask so they could buy. Even the ones that I made are finished, but people are still coming to ask. I want to start sewing new ones so that I can sell. “A lot of people are buying. You can see I am sewing new ones for people that have placed order for them. The demand is high. I don’t have to go out to hawk it. “Coronavirus is making people to rush the masks. It has helped me to make money in this lockdown.” Another tailor, Gift Obon, said: “As I am sewing the masks, they are rushing them. The government that placed emphasis on the facemasks, including making them compulsory, has helped our hustle. In fact, I thank the government. “My child goes to sell them on the road. We use the money to survive this lockdown. The money I make from selling the masks has been sustaining us. I wonder what I would have done without the facemasks. In fact, surviving this lockdown would have been extremely difficult.” “I started the business when people began placing orders for them. The closeness of my shop to the main road also helped me. As I hang them for sale, people stop their vehicles to patronize me,’’ said another female tailor, Alice John. “I call it a serious business because of how much I get from it, especially at this lockdown period. This is a good means of making money. “Although I will not want this pandemic to stay for long, I must confess that the money I have made so far from the production of facemasks has also help me financially,” she added. In Oyo State, tailors across the length and breadth of the state are enjoying a boom in their business as they handle the sewing of one million face masks courtesy of the state government. Governor Seyi Makinde had announced in April that his administration would provide one million facemasks in the first phase for residents in the state as one of the measures aimed at containing COVID-19. He promised to patronise tailors to sew facemasks in the state in order to boost local economy. Makinde is the only governor in the Southwest who did not impose total lockdown as a measure to contain the spread of the virus, arguing that most residents depend on daily income for survival and that any imposition of lockdown in the state would put them at a great peril. Speaking with The Nation, the president, Oyo State chapter of the Nigerian Union of Tailors, Mr Oloyede Ojewale, confirmed that members of the union in the state are currently rounding off on the production of the first phase of 500,000 masks contracted to them by the state government. On whether the contract created a boom for tailors, the union leader explained that the first set was profitable but that the second set of the job which is being completed is not. According to him, as soon as sewing material retailers learnt that government gave mask production job to tailors, they hiked the prices of the materials by up to 120 per cent. He said: “Yes, the government gave the job to us and we distributed it to our members. The job has kept us busy. We really thank the governor for that because nobody is sewing any cloth these days because of coronavirus. People are only spending their money on food. There is no ceremony. So, the job has really helped us. “It was profitable initially but those selling materials to us have since increased the prices of their stock. What we bought for say N700 during the first set, they sold to us for N1,700 in the second set. That has made it so difficult for us to make any profit. “That is why we are using this opportunity again to appeal to our kind-hearted governor to please increase the price for us in the second phase of another 500,000 masks.” A hawker at Adamasingba area of Ibadan, who simply identified himself as Chinedu, said locally made facemasks have become profitable in recent times. “That is what people want to buy now. As a trader, it is better to sell what people want to buy. That is why you see me selling them.” In Ondo State, the threat by Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu to arrest and place residents who refused to wear facemasks on 14 days isolation has increased the sales of facemasks in Akure and its environs. The price of facemasks from hawkers in the street ranged between N50 and N150 in Akure. Some hawkers said they buy at N50 and resell at N100. Ondo State Government was on the verge of ordering for over N500,000 face masks from neighbouring states when it decided to contract tailors in the state to produce the item. Governor Akeredolu was said to have invited the President of the Fashion Designers Association in Akure, Mr. Niyi Ale. Over 400 tailors were engaged to help produce the facemasks while the classrooms of the Caring Heart Mega Primary School in Akure have been converted to temporary production centre for masks. Not a few tailors engaged to sew the nose masks described the decision as a welcome development and a value-adding initiative. One of them, Mrs. Abiodun Adewale, said she was already thinking of how to make ends meet since people were no longer sewing clothes to wear to ceremonies. She said: “When the governor asked us to stay at home, there was nothing I was doing until now when we were asked by the state government to sew nose masks. Last week, we received our payment from the state government.” Another tailor in the state, Tosin Adeyeye, said she started working at the production centre about one week ago, adding that she has been paid according to the number of work she did. “It helped us this season. If not for the facemasks we are now sewing for the state government, we would have been hungry.” Flagging off the distribution of the first 500,000 masks produced by the tailors, Governor Akeredolu said the initiative of massive production and distribution of the masks was borne out of his desire to always put the people first in dealings and feelings. Governor Akeredolu said the engagement of 400 tailors across the state was meant to generate income for them to cushion the effect of the lockdown caused by COVID-19. Akeredolu said: “Our tailors working on the production processes are happy. They are happy not because there is COVID-19 but having the opportunity to exhibit their talents, learning new skills and being able to generate income to cushion the effects of the pandemic on their livelihood. “In the course of the production of these nose masks over 400 tailors were engaged who are working round the clock to ensure that we meet our target for our teeming populace. “Wearing of nose masks in public places is mandatory for every resident in the state. The enforcement has already commenced. “It is significant for me to inform the public that whoever is arrested for not wearing the nose mask will be kept in the isolation centre for 14 days and have his specimen taken to be tested for the virus. Such individual will be responsible for his or her upkeep at the centre.”