 The Federal Capital City Football Association (FCTFA) boss  Mohammed Adam Mouktar has called for caution with plans afoot for return to domestic and international  football amid fight against wide spread of Coronavirus. Most major leagues including football on the Nigerian domestic scene have been on suspension since March following the outbreak of the deadly virus otherwise known as COVID-19 but Mouktar has warned of a possible implosion with the game if care is not taken. “Yes,  we all would love to see football back as quickly as possible  because it’s an integral part of our lives,” Mouktar  who represented Africa  years ago at the novel FIFA Fan Focus Group (50 Great Minds of football) told NationSport. “But we must think and act responsibly, safety first we cannot be emotional and we have to act according to health and safety expert advice as to when it is very safe to return to normal football. “Let’s be patient and it is actually a good time for us to put on our creative thinking caps to come up with new innovative ideas and solutions.” Though the inconclusive leagues in Holland, France and Belgium were recently decided in the ‘boardroom’, Mouktar said the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF) and Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) must work in conjunction with relevant international football authorities and the country’s ministry of health. He said: “We must wait and hear from the top authorities like FIFA and national health and safety experts as to what, when and how to open up and restore normalcy. “Certainly a lot will change and we may never see some of the old style or ways being done again. “We must be patient and follow the guidelines by government and authorities; and in the meantime, clubs must keep the players fit and focused and find ways to make the fans informed.” Elected to lead FCTFA in June 2019, Mouktar said he already had plans in store to rejig the game within Abuja and its environs as soon as the COVID-19 debacle is over. “Football  in the FCT has been on a resurgence  since we came on board last year as we had a lot of ideas and programs; and we have actualized a number of the already,” he explained.“ We will do a review and act according to what the regulations allow; we will emerge better and stronger and more innovative.”