 Niger Delta ex-militants have lambasted a former acting Managing Director, Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Dr. Joy Nunieh, for her recent tirades against the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio. The former agitators under the auspices of the 21st Century Youths of the Niger Delta (21st CYND) said Nunieh in an interview accused Akpabio of instigating her removal because she refused to swear to an oath of secrecy. The Leader of the group and self-styled general, Izon Ebi, said in a statement on Monday that the former acting manager further alleged that Akpabio claimed that she had discrepancies in her National Youths Service Corps (NYSC) certificate. But Ebi said that Nunieh’s leadership of the commission failed to add development to the region accusing her of betrayal. He asked the former managing director to explain while she paid N6bn to only one contractor and refused to pay other companies appealing to Nunieh to explain her relationship with the company that got the money. He said his group discovered that the former acting manager was contacted by the enemies of the commission to discredit Akpabio and frustrate the ongoing strides of the commission under Prof. Keme Pondei. Ebi bowed to hold Nunieh responsible if her current activities derailed the progress of the commission and put the region in jeopardy. Ebi said: “Trying to paint others as corrupt to discredit them is not the virtue of a lady she tries to project. Accusing Senator Akpabio of trying to intimidate her into paying fictitious Akwa Ibom contractors equally hold no water. “The verification exercise instituted by her administration has put paid to the fact that Akwa Ibom contractors did their jobs and duly handed over those facilities to the commission, and the NDDC has been reaping the accrued socio-capital benefits without paying these suffering contractors. “Those who go to equity must go with clean hands, Nunieh’s hand in this matter has not been clean. The 21st century youths are aware that she has been contacted by the enemies of the honourable minister and enemies of the Niger Delta to scuttle the traction and stride of the NDDC. “The commission has started providing succour to the Niger Delta and its people in recent weeks. We urge her to stop and think if her vituperations is beneficial to the people of the region whom she claims to love. We urge her and her cohorts to tread carefully as they will be held responsible if this momentum is aborted. “The present MD of the Commission in the person of Prof. Pondei is making strides without the unnecessary noise and audio achievements that was prevalent during her time. “All that was achieved during her tenure was negative publicity for the commission and the region and bogus allegations without any of the culprits being handed over to the EFCC for prosecution, she should realize that she does not have the temperament to run a commission as diverse as the NDDC, so she should hold her peace and bury her face in shame”.