Sir: The Deputy Governor of Bayelsa State, Senator Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, belongs to the league of the best in terms of competence, intellectualism and education. His thirst for knowledge and quest for self-development through the effective utilization of the tool of education shows clearly in the array of academic materials in his kitty. He can rightly be described as a jack of many trades with a curious display of mastery over all. Ewhrudjakpo had his West Africa School Certificate in 1982 and since then his burning appetite for knowledge has seen him to many institutions within and outside the country whose certificates proudly adorn his curriculum vitae. Between 1989 and 1991, he obtained his first certificate in tertiary education from the Rivers State College òf Health Technology, Port Harcourt, Rivers State. He proceeded to the Rivers State University of Science and Technology, Port Harcourt where he obtained a Bachelor of Science (B. Sc.) in Secretarial Administration between 1991 to 1996. Two years later in 1998, he extended the frontiers of his adventure for academic knowledge by returning to the RUST to pursue and obtain a Master’s Degree in Business Administration, (Management Option) in 2000. He returned to the RUST where a bagged a LLB Hon’s Degree in Law between 2002 and 2007. Interestingly while he was wrestling with the huddle of a tough degree in Law, Ewhrudjakpo also embarked on a simultaneous pursuit of a Certificate Course on Change Management in the Said Business School, Oxford University, United Kingdom from 2006 to 2007. In 2009, the Deputy Governor was called to the Nigerian Bar on the completion of the mandatory programme at the Nigerian Law School, Abuja. However his priority was not to face the law courts for practice as would have been expected. Instead, he registered for  a Diploma course in Mediation, Negotiation and Arbitration, at the Centre for Conflict Resolution, Ghana. In 2011 he again pushed the boundaries of his thirst for more knowledge in academics and undertook a Master of Law, LLM (International Human Rights Law in the Birmingham City University, United Kingdom, which he obtained in 2012. Those are incontrovertible facts! The sponsored stories about a  purported  case against any of Ewhrudjakpo’s  certificates is at best an ludicrously futile exercise in propaganda which is masterminded by defeated detractors. Ironically, quite a number of senior lawyers who have followed the case have expressed informed legal opinion that the case challenging information by a candidate must be filed within the stipulated time after the primaries and the nominations and publication by INEC. That was exactly what the PDP did against the APC. In this case these trumped up case was filed after the election and even after the verdict of the Supreme Court. Glaringly, this was filed out of the stipulated time. This particular argument has been submitted to the appropriate courts for necessary action. It is a fact that those behind the suit even filed after the time provided for such judicial action had lapsed and as a result have no serious case before the court. Therefore, the case has no basis as it was filed outside time.  Yenagoa.