 RESTRICTED by the government regulations on COVID-19, the old boys association of St. John’s Grammar School, Ile-Ife, has devised an electronic poll system to elect its new executives. The device also enabled members of the association in over 20 locations in four continents to fill their ballots and vote. Members voted from Nigeria, Canada, United Kingdom, United States, Denmark, Australia, South Africa, among other countries, last Saturday. Mr. Lanke Bakare, who handled the technical details, said: “We used Google Forms. Google Forms are used to create online surveys and quizzes. These are sent to other people for completion and received back for analysis. It allows you to design the format you want your survey to take and the type of response you want. Responses are automatically collated and easily copied to windows for further analysis.” According to the Secretary of the Electoral Committee, Mr. Yomi Layinka, 218 members participated in the election of the 11-member executive of the association. Layinka, who was the Special Adviser to former Oyo State Governor Abiola Ajimobi, said the committee also held series of interactions with the candidates on the association’s Telegram platform fielding questions from all over the world. The new executive council comprises Dr. Festus Osoba (President), Olajide Makinde (First Vice-President), Jibola Awoseyi (Second Vice-President) and Ike Diaku (Third Vice-President) Others are: Prince Debo Adefisan (General Secretary), Obafemi Obadare (Assistant General Secretary), Kehinde Bamigbetan (Publicity Secretary) and Barrister Temitope Elusogbon (Social Secretary). The team also includes Taiwo Adedire (Financial Secretary), Olaolu Omifare (Treasurer) and Adedapo Adeyeba (Auditor). Accepting the mandate on behalf of the new executive, Dr. Osoba hailed the electoral committee for its ingenuity and thanked all members for participating in the digital election. He said: “We promise responsible leadership that benefits the membership. We promise to communicate and give direction; empower others and leave a good and befitting legacy. We realise that you will only follow us if you trust us. We have a clearly defined and well-communicated vision as outlined in our various manifestoes.” 