 In 1972 as a young academic at the then University of Ibadan, Jos campus, I decided to examine the life and times of Chief S.L.A. Akintola, second and last premier of the Western Region of Nigeria. This was strictly to be an academic exercise which would, as required by the nature of historical scholarship, be based on documentary evidence as well as oral interviews. I was also reacting against the problem of paucity of written documentation about the African past which students of my time in the 1960s encountered in the University of Ibadan which was then the centre of nationalist school of historiography. I was determined to play my part in ensuring that the generation of my children, if they decide to find out about their past, will not be hampered by lack of relevant literature. I am not sure my generation has done all it can do to establish a body of knowledge that would help elucidate the past and foreshadow the future. I believe we have tried. The Ibadan History Series to which I contributed a book cover many countries and themes from politics, war, economy, the press, Christian evangelization in Southern Nigeria and Islamic revolutions in northern Nigeria and other west African states and their impacts on politics and society in West Africa. They also cover early European contacts with Nigeria going back to the 15th century and the Mfecane the Zulu dispersal in Southern Africa as well as French expansion in west Africa and the different legacies of European colonialism in West Africa. When I began looking for official records of the Akintola administration, I was shocked when the secretary to the government of the region or what was left of it when the Mid-West had been hived from it, told me there were no records. I asked what was the meaning of that? He plainly said they did not have enough space for old records and that as soon as one head of government left office, they simply burnt all the papers to make room for the incoming administration. Needless to say, I was shocked. He then added the clincher that they did not even have the papers of the newly departed Brigadier Adeyinka Adebayo who had just been promoted to the rank of Major General and moved to Kaduna as Commandant of the Military Academy. I reminded the gentleman that there was a National Archive in the University of Ibadan not too far away from the secretariat where official documents were by law supposed to be deposited. As an aside, the National Archive has branches in Enugu and Kaduna. I have doubts if the National Archive has had any budgetary provision for years. I had for my self-imposed assignment of writing the book on Akintola to go to the University of Ibadan library to rummage through the brittle old newspapers from the 1930s to the 1960s covering the period of the man’s epiphany and assassination in 1966. I supplemented my newspapers sources with oral interviews in Ibadan, Lagos and Ogbomosho. Almost 50 years later in 2016, Dr (Mrs) Dere Awosika, one of Chief Samuel Festus Okotie-Eboh’s children wanted to mark 50 years of her father’s untimely death in the hands of military assassins by putting on record her father’s contribution to the economic development of Nigeria. She approached me to help with the project. The time for the assignment was incredibly short. I then suggested we prepare a book of anthology of his public presentation of national budgets spanning almost a decade and a generous introduction of who he was and the Itshekiri people to which he belonged to the usually uninformed Nigerian citizenry. I sent research assistants to the National Archive in Ibadan for relevant information. We drew a blank! Then we went to the Cabinet Office (office of the Secretary to the federal government). It was the same result. Then I felt surely, the Ministry of Finance or the Central Bank which Okotie-Eboh created would have copies of his budget speeches. That also was a forlorn hope. I then went on the internet and the University of California at Berkeley had them. They couldn’t be accessed online but one had to go physically to Berkeley, California. We did not have the luxury of time. I was about to give up when someone suggested we ask Chief Phillip Asiodu, a former permanent secretary known for keeping important records. To my surprise and joy, Chief Asiodu had them in his private collection. Should I have been surprised? Perhaps no. Chief Asiodu went through the portals of Oxford University and the university also went through him unlike most people who, as soon as they returned home from studying abroad, went “native” and forgot all they studied and the culture of organized life that produced the excellent institutions from which they benefitted . A country does not develop without institutional memory. The present is as part of the past as it is part of the future. One generation builds on the shoulder of a preceding generation. Any country that begins every epoch by laying new foundation and writing its development plans on a tabula rasa will never make it. Just look at the numbers of conferences, plans, visions Nigeria had been involved in dreaming in the last 60 years, each beginning as if we were reinventing the wheel and yet we have nothing to show for them. No one is sure whether copies of such vision documents lavishly funded by the national exchequer are deposited anywhere for future reference. We seem to run our governments blindfolded and always groping in the dark for a way out. It is not just the presidency that needs institutional memory, all our institutions particularly vital ministries like education, finance, defence, foreign affairs, need institutional memories. As a matter of urgency, every ministry must be asked to have libraries and archives. Do we have records of our gas and oil industries for example? Do we have figures of how much oil and gas have been exploited from our shores and from where? Do we have documents on each individual company involved in exploration and exploitation of our hydrocarbon resources? Do we have records on who and who have been running the affairs of the national oil company and their achievements and failures and what new entrants into office can learn from the past? Do we have figures of export of hard wood timber and consequent deforestation of Nigeria? In these days of computerization, whatever needs to be stored for future should be done. Certainly, all universities should have records which can be stored electronically. I remember going to my alma mater, the University of Ibadan, to help a nephew collect academic transcript some years ago. I was directed to an underground office near the zoo. When I reached the place, it was in total darkness. The place was manned by some elderly women and their boss who was naturally a man! After a lot of fuss, I was led in by a kind woman who knew how to walk in the dark. She unabashedly said I should hold on to her in the dark. We eventually arrived at a dimly lit space which harboured thousands of files. All the ladies searched manually until I gave up my search. They begged me to mention my experience to their vice chancellor so that they could be given a generator to lighten their darkness so to say. This was after I told them how much could be generated from their office if only they could computerize the place and run it efficiently. Anybody who has ever done social science or humanities research in France, Britain and Germany would have an idea how much those countries make in fees charged to allow users to make use of their materials. The Public Records Office in London or the Les Archives Nationales in Paris and the Archive of the Quai d’osay in Paris (Foreign Office) and their counterparts elsewhere attract professors and research students who in their thousands spend millions in those countries while on research trips. In other words, apart from the importance of keeping these records, they are also useful to nationals and foreigners who want to carry out research and if needs be, fees on entry can be charged. Is it not a shame that information on Nigerian affairs are not readily available here in Nigeria but are to be found in British, European and American universities and archives? This reminds me of an incident when I was in Germany. I was visiting Bavaria, one of the most important states in the German federation and a village was thrown in as something that would interest me. I was taken to the office of the Burgermeister (mayor) who surprised me by bringing out my biography of Sir Kashim Ibrahim and wondered if I was the author. Germans like books and venerate intellectuals. Is it therefore strange to anybody how technologically and culturally advanced the Germans are? Let me appeal to the powers that be, to encourage the keeping of records and fostering institutional memories of wherever we work but most especially, the memory of our states and country for the coming generation so that they don’t grope in the dark like their forbears about what happened in their history.