 A twenty seven year-old man has allegedly been crushed to death by a vehicle conveying two policemen in Eziorsu community in Oguta LGA of Imo State. It was learnt that the deceased, Chinedu Nwedu, was crushed to death by two policemen allegedly fleeing from a chaotic situation last weekend in a vehicle. The two policemen, led by one Sergeant Ikiira Sunday, came from Mopol 29, Awka, Anambra State. They were said to be attempting to escape from a suspected oil bunkering operation at Egbema in Ohaji Egbema council area of the state and killed the deceased in the process. It was gathered that after a suspected successful operation at the pipeline belonging to one of the oil companies, which ran from Oguta oil fields to Ebocha, the men were accosted by the youths of Egbema and Opuoma, and the military men at Egbema. The policemen, engaged the soldiers in gun battle on the Opuoma road so as to enable them escape. But, when the crossfire became too much, the policemen were said to have driven off and in the process the police vehicle hit the victim, Chinedu who died on the spot. It was learned that Chinedu was newly married and was the only son of his late parents. Community sources told The Nation that after the incident, the corpse of the deceased and the suspected policemen were taken to the palace of the traditional ruler of Eziorsu, Eze Victor Ijeoma. The sight of the deceased, it was further gathered, stirred up anger amongst the villagers, who were said to have attempted to go into frenzy but were calmed down by the monarch, who put calls across to the Divisional Police Officer of Oguta and the member representing Oguta state constituency, Barr. Frank Ugboma and the state Commissioner for special duties, Barr. Dibiagwu to come to the monarch’s palace. Their presence, it was learned, further helped to calm down the situation as the two policemen were taken away by the DPO. When contacted, the public relations officer of the Imo State Police Command, Orlando Ikeokwu confirmed the incident, but explained that it was an accident. Ikeokwu, who said the cops were already in custody, added that investigations on the matter had commenced to unravel the circumstances that led to the incident.