Covid-19 has brought chaos to the entire nation, and unfortunately South Africa is no exception. In the past month, almost all of the headlines in South African news recently have been a direct result of the Corona virus pandemic. Strict changes have occurred around the world, but especially in the area of South Africa which has been extremely strict regarding rules and regulations in the area. Many citizens are overwhelmed with strict restrictions and are looking for new forms of entertainment. Especially as the ban on fun extends beyond simply being stuck inside of homes. South Africa is absolutely among the strictest of countries when it comes to efforts to delay and discourage the spread of the Corona virus. Among these efforts, South Africa has implemented the ban of the sale of alcohol which is a hotly debated decision all around the world. This is a decision that only two other countries have implemented at this time. Supporters claim that the prohibition of alcohol sales and trades has dramatically decreased the number of alcohol related medical emergencies. This means that medical efforts can be directed toward where they are more immediately needed. Further, deaths related to alcohol accidents and violence are lower than ever before in South Africa. With the ban on alcohol sales remaining strictly in place, people are having to get a little bit creative with their efforts to entertain themselves during quarantine. While some have taken up creative arts, others have found their entertainment in playing some online casinos. Unfortunately, others have actually lost their lives when they attempted drinking a homemade beer. In some ways, the alcohol ban has ruined the fun for many citizens. While it is a positive decision in some respects, there are many who side with the small businesses who are now put out of a family income due to the strict ban on alcohol. With officials believing that South Africa has overcome the worst of the Covid-19 pandemic, they are taking slow steps to open the area back up. The plan is to open things in phases, beginning with the most essential businesses first. Even those businesses will only be allowed to partially open back up- leaving many of their employees still without an income.  As mentioned earlier, South Africa remains some of the strictest regulations around the world. However, officials have recently relaxed some of those strict guidelines to allow a few exceptions to the strict rules that some experts speculate may not be helping the country despite the efforts. Under relaxed guidelines, some businesses (like mines and factories) will be allowed to reopen. Notably unable to reopen are liquor and beer stores who have suffered most from this strict ban on alcohol sales and trade. Restaurants are finally able to open but can only offer to-go food as no dining rooms have opened. Citizens can leave their homes for exercise between the hours of 6 am and 9 am. Public transportation has also re-opened, but with restrictions and limitations on the number of passengers that buses can serve at one time. Other people can also travel to and from businesses and work but have a strict curfew between 8pm and 5am. Officials are hoping to begin re-opening public schools in South Africa beginning June 1st. The public-school reopening is planned to be done in phases to reduce major impacts. According to officials, this will begin with higher grades and slowly incorporate the younger grades. One of the biggest concerns worldwide is the increasing number of deaths that are occurring due to the Coronavirus. This is a cause for concern everywhere, but in South Africa, experts are concerned that the death toll with grow to astronomical heights. At this time, the number of confirmed cases is 8,200 and there are 160 confirmed deaths. Some models of the epidemic are suggesting that up to 190,000 deaths could occur in the South African region within the first year of the Corona virus pandemic. Of course, these numbers are based on computer generated models, but they are still a major cause for concern. Unfortunately, South Africa has entered its second recession in two years. While one might expect that the corona virus has largely caused this, economists suspect it may have been coming eventually. Still, with so many South Africans stuck without any way to make money, it seems no surprise that the economy has tanked. In fact, it is to be expected. There are very few businesses that have been open, and very few individuals have been able to make any money during the quarantine. When this happens, it seems pretty clear that the economy will suffer. The Agriculture, Land Reform, and Rural Development department of South Africa has reported an outbreak of the African Swine Fever. Luckily, this fever is contained to only pigs and poses no threat to humans beyond their food supply. The African Swine Fever is deadly to pigs and spreads extremely quickly. The department is doing everything that they can to contain the outbreak and to stop further agricultural loss during an already stressful time. At this time, 50 pigs have died during the outbreak of the African Swine Fever. The villages where the outbreak occurred have all been quarantined. No pigs are allowed to be transported until further notice. South Africa has faced many extensive challenges since the beginning of the pandemic in 2020. However, their challenges only seem to be beginning, and unfortunately for the citizens of South Africa, the journey to normalcy could still be quite a ways away. However, there are some positive aspects happening in South Africa as well. Much like the rest of the world, citizens of South Africa are hopeful that restrictions will be lifted and that they will begin to thrive again in the near future.