It was a virtual atmosphere of conviviality between leaders of Ekiti State associations/professional organisations in North America and the UK and Direct Foreign Investment (DFI) subcommittee at the first interactive e-meeting on Saturday, May 9. The subcommittee which is under the chairmanship of Mrs. Folusho Olaniyan–is one of the five subcommittees of the Response Resource Mobilisation Committee under the auspices of Prince Adelusi Adeluyi with Aare Afe Babalola as the Grand Patron–was set up by Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi to look beyond COVID-19 towards situating the state for sustainable development. The subcommittee was also mandated to find strategic ways for the inclusion and integration of the state’s diasporic indigenes in the state’s developmental architecture. Mrs. Olaniyan in her remarks said broadly speaking, the meeting was to stress the imperative of Ekiti State Diaspora community’s holistic participation in the state’s development and the readiness of the state government to partner/collaborate with its diasporic indigenes towards achieving its development objectives. The chairman also said that the immediate order of business of her subcommittee was to seek the cooperation of the leadership of all Ekiti State associations/professional organisations in the subcommittee’s efforts in establishing a comprehensive database for all the state’s diasporic citizens around the world for mutual benefits. “I cannot overemphasise the importance of gathering data and I believe you can avail us this privilege by giving us the information of members of your respective organisations as the starting point of this comprehensive endeavor,” she said. The Director -General of the Ekiti State Government Office of Transformation, Service and Delivery and Special Adviser to Governor Fayemi, Prof. Bolaji Aluko presented an overview of the government’s efforts at curtailing COVID-19 in the state during the deliberations. In his presentation, Prof. Aluko said in his personal opinion “this is the time for Ekiti indigenes in the Diaspora to come together about Ekiti. If we cannot come together in the face of the existential threat that COVID-19 poses to our humanity then there’s no time we will ever come together.” He said the state started with a 10-bed isolation centre which has now been expanded to 150-beds courtesy of Sir Remi Omotosho and Access Bank that donated 40 and 100 beds respectively. Although Prof. Aluko described the state’s preparedness as a “forward looking approach” he also expressed the hope that the state will never get into a situation where all these beds would have to be utilised. In expressing his frustrations about the lack of testing centres in Ekiti State, he said they always wait for the results of patients that has been tested either from Lagos or Abuja. The lack of testing centres therefore makes it difficult to separate those who has been infected but are asymptomatic from the general population. Prof. Aluko also doubles as the coordinator of the COVID-19 Response Resource Mobilisation Committee.