More Nigerians are embracing insurance to mitigate risks as coronavirus (Covid-19)  is affecting the economy globally, The Nation has learnt. This is just as operators embark on full digital sales and remote operations. Also, in line with the directives of the Lagos State Government and the health authorities, insurance firms put measures in place to ensure a safe and healthy work environment for their staff and customers. The Managing Director, Cornerstone Insurance Plc, Mr. Ganiyu Musa, said while the lockdown lasted, the company ensured that its customers continued to be served. Musa, who doubles as the Vice Chairman, Nigeria Insurers Association (NIA), also said while they were aware of the reduction in business due to cancellation, premium refunds, short period covers, among others, the period  witnessed increased requests for insurance cover from some opportunities and markets. He noted that the new opportunities had been created by the pandemic as people seek to either renew existing policies or take up new ones that can mitigate disruptions in their business operations. NIA Director-General Mrs. Yetunde Ilori said the ease on lockdown was good for the industry as people used the opportunity to renew their  expired policies. She said this had been happening because of the uncertainty on whether or not the Federal or Lagos State governments would restore the  lockdown. She added that their sales were more in the area of renewals, especially from the corporate entities. She said: ‘’They have come to appreciate that they are expose to risk. Underwriters and policyholders are putting the lessons learnt from the lockdown to good use. ‘’They are enabling staff to work remotely because the face-to-face transaction is no longer there. They are doing digital selling and clearing everything remotely.’’ Also, the Managing Director, Sunu Assurance Plc, Mr. Samuel Ogbodu, affirmed that the pandemic brought into limelight the importance of health and life insurance in the early weeks of the outbreak in country. Also, he said the ripple effects of the lockdown, which led to several fire outbreaks in various parts of the country, later drew attention to general business insurance, mostly among small and scale medium enterprises (SMEs). These, he pointed out, had led to a slight increase in insurance sales for SMEs, but with structured premium payments plans due to liquidity challenges. He added that the company too has been running virtual operation throughout the lockdown.