The African Union (AU) Commission has partnered HP on initiatives to boost e-learning in 55 AU-member countries and reduce the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on school closures. Representatives of both parties agreed to collaborate during an extra-ordinary session of the Specialized Technical Committee on Education, Science and Technology held virtually on April 30. With the youngest population in the world (more than 400 million people aged 15-35), the disruption of schooling affects a very large number of children and young people in Africa. Elisabeth Moreno, Managing Director and Vice President of HP Africa said HP’s Learning Initiative for Entrepreneurship (HP LIFE) and BeOnline programmes, could be utilised by ministers to support schools and educators in their distance learning endeavours. The learning platforms will contribute towards H.E. Moussa Faki Mahammat’s, the Chairperson of the AU, 1 Million By 2021 initiative, which seeks to provide opportunities to young Africans AU member states in the areas of Education, Employment, Engagement and Entrepreneurship (the 4Es). “Education is a fundamental human right that should be available regardless of a person’s age, class, race, gender or location.  To that end, HP has pledged to enable better learning outcomes for 100 million people by 2025, as well as adding 1 million users to HP LIFE between 2016-25 – a commitment that aligns with the AU’s Continental Education Strategy for Africa (CESA), which aims to change Africa’s education and training systems to meet the knowledge, competencies, skills, innovation and creativity required to nurture core values and promote sustainable development on a continental level.” Commissioner of the AUC Department of Human Resources, Science and Technology, Prof. Sarah Anyang Agbor urged member-countries to make the most of the platforms. “The partnership with HP will accelerate our education response to Covid-19 especially and have long-term benefits. I implore AU Member States to make the most of these opportunities as this partnership means young people can access educational opportunities at no cost for the rest of this academic year. This partnership speaks directly to H.E Moussa Faki Mahamat’s 1 Million by 2021 initiative by providing educational opportunities which will assist in positioning our youth to venture into the entrepreneurial sector,” she said.