A Coronavirus patient tested positive for COVID-19 five weeks after he stopped having symptoms of the disease. And experts say it is a fresh confirmation that the novel coronavirus may remain in the human body for weeks or months longer than expected. Charles Pignal, 42, from Singapore, first tested positive for COVID-19 on March 4 after displaying all the classic symptoms. He was subsequently admitted in hospital in Singapore. Two days after his admission, the cough and 102F ceased and he had a lot of energy. But for five more weeks, the footwear executive kept testing positive, despite having no signs or symptoms. He was finally discharged from the isolation ward at the Singapore National Center for Infectious Diseases 40 days after testing positive. Twenty-four hours before then he had tested negatives in  two tests taken in two days. After a few days in the hospital, he felt healthy and even told his mother: ‘I’ll be out of here in a couple of days.’ But the positive test results kept coming back and he asked his physician if he was still infectious. ‘He said: ‘We don’t know, but there’s no evidence that what you’re shedding is contagious,” Pignal, a Frenchman, said. To be considered recovered; a patient must have no fever without the help of drugs for 72 hours, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Additionally, the person must also show improvement in his or her respiratory health and have two negative tests results taken at least 24 hours apart. Pignal tested negative on Day 23, but he tested positive the next day. After a month, Pignal said he started to feel more and more isolated and more and more hopeless, The Mail of London reported yesterday. “’Coronavirus update: The Resort feels quite isolating and the contradictory information we receive makes it more distressing,” he wrote on Instagram. Finally on April 10 and 11, he got his back-to-back negative test results and was allowed to return home to his fiancée. Most people with the virus recover after about two weeks, but between one percent and two percent continue to shed the virus, meaning they spread it to others.