Edo State government and the Safe Edo Movement (SEM), a socio-political organisation, are at loggerheads over controversial agriculture loans, writes BISI OLANIYI, Southsouth Bureau Chief.  Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki has always stated that his administration was committed to agricultural development and empowerment of residents of the  state, but members of a socio-political organisation, the Safe Edo Movement (SEM) appeared not impressed with this. In order to know the truth about the much touted agric loans, meant to jumpstart agricultural revolution in the state, SEM, through its President, Chris Oshokha Ethuakhor, wrote a strongly-worded petition to the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed. Copies of the petition, which alleged fraud in Edo’s agric loans, particularly diversion of the funds, were also sent to the World Bank, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The socio-political organisation said: “Ever since the year 2018, various interventionist initiatives and policies, backed by funds from Nigeria’s prime economic institution, the CBN, and the global World Bank, have been pumped into Edo State. These policies, initiatives and funds, although channeled towards agriculture, have all gone largely unaccounted for. “Of major concern to us is that loans obtained under the guise of boosting agricultural productivity do not end up in the hands of Edo State’s farmers, who are in dire need of support. Rather and sadly too, the funds go missing or end up in the pockets of private hijackers. “It is the aim of this petition to call the attention of the World Bank, CBN, EFCC and the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning to the series of unresolved cases pointing towards corruption. We hope that a team of competent investigators, made up of civil society organisations, public officers and operatives of EFCC will be asked to investigate the misappropriation of loans given to Edo State government between 2017 and 2020.” SEM also stated that the method and process of obtaining the loans were shrouded in secrecy, thereby necessitating the call for diligent investigation in order to know the truth and that those found culpable be arrested and prosecuted as this will serve as a deterrent to others. It said: “In 2017, the CBN gave N2 billion loan to Edo State government, for the production of maize, under the agripreneur programme. The last known and traceable activity with this fund is that Edo State government transferred it to SARO Agro Sciences Limited to cultivate and manage the 5,000-hectare maize farm at Sobe, on behalf of Edo State government. After this known activity, the whole initiative has disappeared into thin air, and to this date, nothing has been heard of it. We implore the CBN to spearhead a thorough investigation that will inform Nigerians of how the fund was spent. “In 2019, the CBN gave Edo State government a loan of an undisclosed amount, urging that the fund be spent in support of the state’s agripreneur programme, through the Nigeria Incentive-Based Risk-Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL). The fund, the CBN conceived, should aid the cultivation of the 5,000 hectares of rice farm in Agenegbode, Warrake, Iguomon, Illushi and Iguoriakhi, all in Edo State. “At the start of the farming season, which began in July 2019, each farmer was tentatively given the sum of N1.3 million, which was distributed and held in accounts at Sterling Bank and could only be accessed by NIRSAL. “Even though the rice was cultivated and later harvested the same year’s October, the farmers are, to date, yet to receive their money lodged in Sterling Bank’s accounts. The last probing that was answered had the Edo State Ministry of Agriculture stating that the rice paddings were moved from Agenegbode to Abakiliki in Ebonyi State for processing, because Edo State does not have a rice-processing mill despite all the agricultural investments in the state.” SEM also stated that in 2019, the CBN approved the sum of N65 billion for the Edo State Oil Palm Programme (ESOPP), which it said would definitely be used to support Ellah Lakes Plc, managed by Mr. Chuka Mordi, who according to the group, fronted for Obaseki, while stressing that Edo governor had already ceded the state-owned lands in Igwelaba to the company. The socio-political body, however, lamented that till date, no tangible progress has been made on the project, neither was there a public update to the effect. It said: “In what appears to be a reinforcement of existing progress, in the year 2020, an additional N5 billion loan was approved by the CBN for the agripreneur programme. This would not have drawn the ire of the public, except that there is no ongoing activity or progress on the said agripreneur programme. This draws curiosity on the seeming bottomlessness of the programme that fails provable evidence and refuses completion. “Having studied the transactions, we are convinced that the records and history of the handling of these funds are not impressive. Put mildly, the continued loan approvals, even in the face of obvious misappropriation, amounts to insult of the intelligence of Edo people.” It continued: “It is imperative to note that, besides mere speeches given at t . Edo people are asking why the CBN continues to give loans to Edo State government, when it is clear that these loans end up in private pockets, except that some vested interests benefit from the mismanagement of these loans, despicably, to the detriment of Edo citizens. “All of us at the SEM, therefore, by our devotion to the advocacy of the good of the common Edo people, feel obligated to bring the grumblings and dissatisfaction of the people to the notice of the Central Bank Governor, World Bank, EFCC and the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning. “It will serve the utmost purpose of social justice and restoring public confidence in the concerned institutions if, as we requested, you investigate all loans given by the CBN to Edo State government from 2017 to date and objectively inform the public of the findings.” SEM, in line with best practices, also strongly recommended that while the investigation would last, further disbursement of loans to the state should be halted, adding that it will ensure that there are no further complications and/or further avenue for unmitigated fraud, which the government had been indicted and suspected of. However, Obaseki’s Special Adviser on Agriculture, Forestry and Food Security, Prince Joe Okojie, during a news conference at the Government House, Benin, the state capital, dismissed allegations levelled against Obaseki’s administration by SEM, particularly on the agric loans. Okojie said: “Edo State agriprenuer programme started since the inception of this (Obaseki’s) administration. Governor Obaseki’s position is that the quickest and easiest way to create wealth and engage our teeming youths and women, is through agriculture. “So, at the initial stage, we did some pilots, using Fadama farms. We later had crops and livestock farms across the 18 local government areas of Edo state. The way the farms work is that in a particular area, we aggregate the farmers, who are farming a particular crop or livestock. In crop production, each farmer gets about five hectares. In cassava production, each of the farmers gets two hectares, because cassava has a longer gestation period. “You were all present when we launched Edo State Oil Palm Programme (ESOPP), where the Governor of the CBN, Godwin Emefiele, was present and he committed up to 75 per cent of the total investment required to do phase one, which was about N91.3 billion. The 75 per cent is about N68.9 billion. The money does not come to the state. It is not a loan to the state. The commitment that the CBN governor made would be a loan to the would-be investors, who must demonstrate that they have capacity to bring 25 per cent equity to the table. Once they have demonstrated that, then the CBN can loan them up to 75 per cent of the investment required. “As we speak, we have our implementation committee set up and the members are working round the clock, to make sure we allocate the lands to our would-be investors, so that the programme can kick off in earnest.” Okojie also revealed that under the agripreneur programme, the state government mainly concentrated on five main crops: rice, soyabeans, maize, cassava and oilpalm. He said: “I do not really want to take issue with the people (members of SEM) that are flying the kite. I am not aware of any N2 billion that was allegedly given. I am not also aware that Edo State took a loan of N2 billion for agripreneur purpose. “What I am aware of is that Edo State government took a loan of N5 billion for the agripreneur programme, which we have been using for agricultural development, especially from land development to crops’ cultivation. The loan is domiciled in Sterling Bank. The balance is still in excess of N4 billion, in spite of all that we are producing this year. It is an ongoing project. “Some of the funds were used for land development. You must first bring people to remove the trees, before you can start mechanising the farms. The money you spent on land development does not come back to you. It is part of the long-term investments. What comes back to you is the money you spent on crop production, which when you sell the crops, the money comes back to the account.” According to him, during the 2019 farming season, officials of Edo government had to go as far as Kano and Kaduna states, to get tractors since the state had not been farming in that capacity and was without the needed implements. He said: “So, Governor Obaseki partnered the private sector that came to set up a mechanisation hub in the Agricultural Development  Programme (ADP). So that this year (2020), we would not have to go too far to get some tractors to start. Even though we brought some tractors from outside Edo State, but we were able to start before those ones came. “The way the programme works is that we identify the farmers, funds are paid into the farmers’ accounts and there is a lien on the funds, so that the farmers will not be able to just take the money out. From the accounts, we pay for inputs and agro-chemicals. At the end of the day, we will bring for them the off-takers that buy the produce from them. The off-takers pay into the off-takers’ accounts from where the farmers’ accounts are credited. The loan was at the rate of nine per cent interest. I understand that the CBN has reduced it to five per cent, but as at last year, it was nine per cent annual rate. “Loans and the interests are deducted, and the balance, which is the profit of the farmers, is released to the farmers. Last year’s farmers, when they were given their money, it was done publicly and Governor Obaseki personally handed them their profit cheques. The programme is working and it has been a success. It is true that some people might not have made profit. If you plant and you do not tend to your farm, you will not get the desired yield. When the farmers sell their produce, they must pay back the loans. Farmers that did not make profit last year, we are giving them opportunity again this year to re-farm and come up with some creative ways, so that they will be able to make profit. “Allegation that money disappeared from farmers’ accounts is laughable. We paid the money into the farmers’ accounts after the off-takers had paid and the farmers took their profit. The farmers must pay back the loans and the interests. The money needs to be pooled, so that it can be directed for the following year’s production.” Obaseki’s aide, who disclosed that other programmes would come up, also assured that Edo government would scale up the activities this year. He said: “We are at the stage of clearing the land and we do not have the luxury of irrigation, as most of our crops are rain-fed and they are all-time sensitive. If you plant rice after May, you may not get the desired yield, but you can plant cassava year round. “A few days ago, we added yam and groundnut to the crops that we are going to support the farmers on. Groundnut in Edo North Senatorial District and yam across the state, because yam does well across Edo State. All the steps we are taking are to mitigate against food insecurity post Covid-19. The petition writers’ best know their intentions,” he said. He added: “The Coronavirus Disease has been a blessing in disguise, in the sense that we are producing more now than we produced last year and we are going to produce more. Since the outbreak of Covid-19, most Edo people and other Nigerians have been at home eating, as well as buying off all the food items in bulk and giving them to the vulnerable.” He also said there would be shortage of food at some point because the rate at which the people were buying the food items could not match production. To him, Obaseki had forseen what could possibly happen and taken steps to mitigate against food shortage in Edo by coming up with a programme. It included people no longer relying on the food production through the agripreneur programme, but government officials going to farmers producing independently and helping them to increase their productivity. Okojie said: “For identified farmers across the 18 LGAs of Edo State, if each of them was farming one acre before, we want to make sure he/she is now farming a minimum of one hectare. In the one hectare, we will clear the land for you, mechanise it, give inputs/improved seedlings and agro-chemicals that will help increase the productivity. “That is why we decided to add yam and groundnut. All these are steps being taken by Governor Obaseki to ensure that we successfully mitigate against food insecurity during or post-Covid-19.” 