The Sultan of Sokoto and President-General, Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar on Friday declared Sunday as Eid-il-Fitr day. The declaration followed the no report of moon sighting in the country. The ongoing Ramadan ends Saturday, marking the end of 30-day fasting. A statement by the Wazirin Sokoto and Chairman, Advisory Committee on Religious Affairs, Sultanate Council, Prof Sambo Wali Junaidu, said the council did not receive any report from various Moon Sighting Committees across the country confirming the sighting of the moon of Shawwal. NSCIA Secretary-General Prof Ishaq Oloyede confirmed to The Nation that the moon was not sighted. Oloyede said “fasting continues tomorrow (today).” The Sultan, Prof Junaidu said, had accepted the report of the committee and accordingly declared Sunday, May 24 as the first day of Shawwal (Day of Eid-il-Fitr). “The Sultan felicitates with the Muslim Ummah and wishes them Allah’s guidance and blessings. The Sultan while urging the Muslim Ummah to continue to pray for peace, progress and development of the country,” he said. The Chief Imam of Lagos State, Sheikh Sulaimon Abou-Nolla advised Muslims to abide by the Sultan’s directive. This, he said, would ensure a national unity. He urged Muslims to observe the Sunday Eid prayers at home. Sheikh Abou-Nolla “This year’s Eid-il-Fitr is an unusual one coming at a time when the world is battling a global pandemic – the COVID-19 with its prevalence significantly impacting on every sphere of our lives particularly on social interaction. Recognising the need for our collective survival, in consonance with the Islamic principles that place high premium value on human lives, all Muslims should maintain a high level of personal hygiene such as regular hand washing, sanitising, practising social distancing and staying in our current locations to minimise the spread of the virus. “We enjoin Muslims to observe Eid prayers at home, as this exceptional circumstance demands, and as have been advised by Muslim scholars all over the world.”