It is not only the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 (PTF) that can sometimes be inconsistent in their battle against the deadly but somewhat overrated coronavirus disease (COVID-19) , the law enforcement agencies, particularly the police, are even less consistent. Late on Tuesday, the police suddenly countermanded the directive of President Muhammadu Buhari that allows essential services workers free movement in the discharge of their duties. For reasons not clearly stated, only a few state police commands, including Lagos and Ogun, implemented the new order by the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu. Last Tuesday, essential services workers, particularly health workers and journalists, were either detained at checkpoints or arrested and detained in overcrowded police stations. It was not until the following day, Wednesday, that the order was rescinded following public outcry. Virtually the whole country was united in condemning Mr Adamu’s effrontery. They wondered where he got the boldness to disregard the president’s directive or misinterpret it. In all his three nationwide addresses on the war against COVID-19, the president had been explicit on free movement for essential services workers during the regimen of restrictions put in place to help combat the pandemic. The president’s order was reasonable and unambiguous. If health workers did not have free movement during national or state lockdowns, how could the disease be confronted effectively? And if media professionals did not enjoy free movement, how could they report the war or serve as intermediary and information disseminators between the government and the people? But even during the earlier lockdowns, the police had sometimes resisted the presidential order, though not as flagrantly as they did last Tuesday. Indications that the police were uncomfortable with the presidential directive first emerged in Lagos when they defied the directive on the movement of essential workers as contained in the president’s speech when he imposed a nationwide curfew and interstate lockdown. The police in Lagos, probably acting on orders from above, detained media professionals on the incomprehensible pretext that curfew was not the same as lockdown, with curfew, in their view, interpreted to be more severe and total. How they came to that conclusion is baffling. However, it required the intervention of the Lagos State government to enlighten the police that the president was clear in his speech about those who qualified for free movement during the curfew, and that in any case, essential services during a health crisis could not suddenly mean something else simply because lockdown had transmuted into a curfew. The police muttered some curious explanations and then backed down. But given the enthusiasm with which the police defied or misinterpreted the president’s order on the free movement of essential services workers, barely three weeks after the first defiance, some analysts have suggested that there must be more to the second defiance than the excuse the police have given. The police had suggested that the presidential exemptions were abused, and that some of the so-called essential services workers were guilty of that abuse. The police did not corroborate their accusations. In fact the IGP was clear on Tuesday when he held a virtual conference with top police officers that the implementation of the curfew was to be total. According to him, there would be no exemptions whatsoever. Why and how it did not occur to him that it amounted to insubordination to forbid exemptions in direct opposition to a presidential address that admitted exemptions is still unclear. It took an outcry and threat of a sit-at-home protest by medical workers to jolt the police awake. Or perhaps top government officials waded into the matter. But whether the IGP was himself countermanded or he responded on his own volition to the protests, it is noted that he reversed himself barely a day later. Three disturbing facts, however, come out of the whole sordid controversy over essential workers’ movements. First, the IGP once again gave wing to the suspicion that his professionalism can sometimes lack surefootedness in moments of crisis. It was expected that he should ordinarily understand the president’s unambiguous directive about who qualifies for free movement  during a crisis such as the one engendered by COVID-19. No one has disputed the clarity of the president’s directive. Therefore, what part of the president’s directive did the IGP not understand? Second, the fiasco also raises apprehension about how the police are led. When the IGP issued his counter directive during the virtual conference with his top officers, could the Police Force not boast of a few officers who had read and digested the president’s speech to the point of remonstrating with Mr Adamu on the implications of his new directive on essential services workers? Was there no debate during the conference? Did the IGP simply and fiercely issue the directive, and then ended the teleconferencing without allowing any input? Or did the officers wholeheartedly agree with their boss because they were either afraid of him or harboured grudges against doctors and journalists? Surely, they cannot all say it never occurred to them that if doctors were barred from unhindered movement, it could cost some people/patients their lives. Nor can they say that they did not need reporters to cover how the police were giving effect to the presidential directives, assuming the directives were not so ingloriously misinterpreted. Third, it is curious and shocking that state governments themselves did not immediately counter the police directive, especially because of the potential harmful impact the IGP’s new directive would have on the war against the disease. Lagos was the most affected by the aberrant police behaviour of last Tuesday, a fact that led the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) in the state to react forcefully to the arrest and detention of doctors. States should never allow the police to complicate their efforts. They should immediately have reached out to the presidency and ensure that the misinterpretation of the president’s order was corrected barely a few hours later. More, they should have pushed for sanctions against the IGP. The health crisis Nigeria is facing, not to say the attendant and disruptive economic effects, is too dire to be messed up by policemen unprofessionally interpreting or countermanding presidential directive. The misinterpretation was deliberate and offensive. The states should have denounced it openly, particularly resting their condemnation on the earlier presidential directive, or at least verbally defied it. It was an occasion that required the states to be forceful and unapologetic. The police may do as they please, even in the face of clear presidential orders, unafraid of sanctions; and the states may be timid, as they often are when they confront federal meddlesomeness, but what of the federal government itself? Could they pretend not to be aware of the police misdeed, or did they think little of it? On some occasions in the past, the police and other security agencies had flouted presidential directives and the constitution, and had not been sanctioned. Perhaps, this explains the levity with which the police, smarting from accusations of incompetent policing of the interstate lockdown, twisted the presidential directive. Yet, neither the federal and state governments nor the police are unaware of how other countries are responding to the COVID-19 threat, particularly how the media, health workers and law enforcement agencies in those countries are discharging their responsibilities. It is shameful that this momentary lapse of common sense ever occurred. The image of Nigeria is further sullied by a Police Force that finds it difficult to interpret who is an essential service worker. It is not enough that the federal government put a task force together to supervise the country’s medical response to the disease. The task force and the government must be on top of the situation in every material particular. They must not allow the country to be ridiculed again, or give the impression to the rest of the world that in things as elementary as dealing with the administration of a lockdown or curfew, Nigeria and its security agencies wrestle with directives and interpretations. If the country can’t get little things right, how can it be trusted to get the bigger matter of a search for COVID-19 cure right? If heads of agencies, whether law enforcement or administrative, know that there would be consequences for egregious behaviour, especially one that borders on flouting presidential directive, they would be less lackadaisical or imperious.