  Social vices are unhealthy and unethical. They are negative behaviours which are against the morals of the society and are frowned at. However, an overview of activities in Nigeria reveals how social vices have become the order of the day among the youth. Internet fraud, cultism, prostitution and the likes have attained peak levels. It is believed that social vices are common among youths of all gender. But it would interest you to know that some of our so-called “elders” even shockingly our “parents” involve themselves in unethical and immoral acts so its begs the question: Who is setting the proper examples/standards? Internet fraud, for instance, has  become an almost acceptable and stable income system to youths. It  is an illegal online business coined in a layman’s language as yahoo yahoo, 419 or even G (a term mostly used in tertiary institutions) as these fraudsters are commonly referred to as “scammers”. Thes fraudsters take on any form such as internet ticket fraud, charity fraud, Online gift card fraud amnog others to fool their clients. Interestingly, the female folk has joined the trade. Poor parenting is the major cause of social vices.Through proper planning, parents are to give birth to a certain number of children they would be able to cater for and nurture in terms of providing their basic needs and giving them quality education. However, when a family produces more offsprings than they can cater for, such children go in search of means of livelihood most times on the streets. When parents shirk their responsibilities, training their children becomes difficult. Peer pressure is another   reason young people find themselves in illicit acts. For  youths who grow up in urban areas where cultism, internet fraud and prostitution hold sway, they would certainly be negatively influenced. It’s more like a competition among youths to prove who is better off in terms of who wears the latest clothes, shoes or who has the latest phones. For these vanities, most youths go to extreme levels. In this era of the coronavirus, the  alarming rate of unemployment in Nigeria has left many handicapped and disoriented as they retire to the saying: “There is no job in Nigeria.” Thus, idleness is a great enhancer of illicit affairs. Correcting social ills should be the major preoccupation of parents. The home is the first point of training, hence, the saying: ”Charity begins at home.” Parents should do well to teach their children/wards morals, principles and acceptable societal values from a young age, to  help  position their mind in making the right decisions and doing the right thing. In this mindset, the youth will be able to handle whatever the society throws at them. Also, it  is imperative that every learning institution starting from the primary schools to the tertiary institutions, have trained professionals in major vocational skills, who will at their best inculcate in students theoretical  and practical aspects of  skills, to reduce the rate of unemployment. The government should also provide good job opportunities and create empowerment programs for the youths  to get them busy since  “an idle mind is the devil’s workshop”. Again, this is a passionate appeal to  every parent to instill the right morals and appropriate societal values in their children from a tender age.The Holy Book says: “Train up a  child in the way he should go and when he is old , he would not depart from it.” Having done this, our country will be a better and safer place.