 The Jama’at Ta’awunil Muslimeen has empowered 360 people in various vocational skills. The vocational training include Software development, CCTV Camera installation, Solar and Inverter Installation, Mobile Application and Web Development. At the Third Graduation of 60 trainees held at Dopemu, Agege, Lagos, witnessed by Baale of Dopemuland and other dignitaries, the organisation, popularly known as Ta’awun, said the training was meant to reduce poverty in the society. Three hundred had earlier graduated. Its Lagos Coordinator, Sodiq Sulaymon, said the trainees comprise of graduates and undergraduates, were trained for 21 days. “These are skills that will enable participants to be self- sufficient as they can set up business with low capital and earn high profit,” he said. According to him,  “one important aspect of life is economy, with the  global economic meltdown, the mass laying off of workers across various industries and increasing unemployment and underemployment, it is important for government, cooperate bodies and individuals alike to cushion the effects of the economic meltdown.” Quoting the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), Sulaymon said the unemployment rate in the country rose to 27.1 per cent in the second quarter of 2020 while the underemployment rate increased to 28.6 per cent in the same quarter. “It is against this backdrop that the organ of the Jama’at felt the need to provide the populace with skills and entrepreneurial knowledge,” he said. Sulaimon mentioned that the association had organised computer training programs, culinary training and cosmetology amongst others. The participants, he said, have been linked with the personality to further engage and develop them so that they can excel in their field. The National Amir of Jama’at Ta’awunil Muslimeen, Sheikh Daood Imran Molaasan, hailed the organisers, urging them to make it regular. He pleaded with the government to look into the initiative and support the programme. He encouraged the graduands to acquire more knowledge on what they were taught by doing self-learning and teaching other people. A guest speaker, Alhaji AbdulAzeez Olowoopejo, urged the gathering to impact something beneficial to others and have the intention of patronising young entrepreneurs. Many times, we want to patronise experts because we love their jobs, but if nobody patronises youngsters, you know they would not get to the level of becoming an expert,” he said. Olowoopejo urged the graduands to aim high, innovate, network with the right source and develop their skills further. He encouraged them to be honest in their dealings with people. A participant, AbdulQowiy Abiodun, lauded the efforts of the organisers. He said there are some equipment and materials that the organisers were not able to get due to the cost, appealing to the government to help provide them at subsidised rates. Abiodun added that there are some equipment, facilities and materials that the organisers were not able to get because of the cost, he suggested that the government can provide such at a subsidized rate. A beneficiary, Sunday Adesina, hailed the group for the gesture, saying: “This is the first time we are receiving foodstuffs from any organisation. I thank IMAN for the gesture because despite that I am a Christian, I was considered as one of the beneficiaries.’’