A member of the Ondo State Governorship National Campaign Council of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr. Osita Okechukwu, has said no amount of conspiracy can stop Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu’s victory on Saturday. He said the alliance of 11 “missionary” political parties will not stop Akeredolu from getting between 50 and 58 per cent votes at the polls. Okechukwu, the director-general of Voice of Nigeria (VON), who addressed reporters on Tuesday in Abuja, said the governor was sure of victory, not only because of his incumbency advantage, but also because of his sterling performance in his first term. He said the National Campaign Council of the party had made a fact-finding tour of Ondo State and its findings showed that Akeredolu performed well within the limited resources of the state, in the provision of infrastructures for the people across the three senatorial zones. “The APC National Campaign Committee sent some of us to Ondo State for an on-the-spot assessment of our chances. We spent seven days mingling with people of all classes. Without being immodest, Aketi’s chances of winning the election hover between 55 and 58 per cent. “ “Infrastructure-wise, he has performed well in Akure, building roads, schools and hospitals among others. In road construction, he has completed 125 kilometres of roads and work is ongoing on 279 kilometres, to be completed in his second tenure. The Okitipupa road, which was in a deplorable state under previous governments, has been rehabilitated by the Akeredolu administration. He dualised the road in Akoko, Ondo South. He built roads in Irele. His target is to complete 700 kilometres of roads before the completion of his second tenure. “He built Ore Bridge in Ondo South Senatorial District and the bridge not only serves the people of Ondo State and Southwest as a whole, it has also become a gateway to other parts of the country,” Okechukwu said. He said in the industrial sector, Akeredolu established the Ore industrial park, and had attracted not fewer than 10 industries to Ondo State. The APC chieftain said: “Akeredolu upgraded the University of Medical Sciences. He also built a teaching hospital and today, 15 of its courses have been accredited. “In the health sector, he built primary health centres and two 200-bedded hospitals in Ondo and Akure. Added to his uncommon interest in the health sector is the Ondo State Health Insurance Scheme to guarantee adequate and affordable health care. He is also building a school of medical health.”