Following the heightening protests against police brutality across the country, the Nigerian Army has warned it is prepared to protect the country’s democracy at all cost. Apparently referring to the #EndSARS protesters, the Nigerian Army in a statement by the Acting Director Army Public Relations, Colonel Sagir Musa, assured it is committed to the “sustenance of peace, security and defence of democracy in Nigeria” According to the statement: “The Nigerian Army (NA) wishes to reassure law abiding citizens that it is highly committed to the sustenance of peace, security and defence of democracy in  Nigeria. “As a responsible and law abiding organisation,  the NA reaffirms its unalloyed loyalty and commitment to the President, Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria President Muhammadu Buhari and the Constitution of the Country. “The NA hereby warns all subversive elements and trouble makers to desist from such  acts as it remains highly committed to defend the country and her democracy at all cost. “The NA is ready to fully support the civil authority in whatever capacity to maintain law and order and deal with any situation decisively. “All officers  and men are directed never to be distracted by anti democratic forces and agents of disunity”. Apparently referring to the #EndSARS protesters, the Nigerian Army in a statement by the Acting Director Army Public Relations, Colonel Sagir Musa, assured it is committed to the “sustenance of peace, security and defence of democracy in Nigeria” According to the statement: “The Nigerian Army (NA) wishes to reassure law abiding citizens that it is highly committed to the sustenance of peace, security and defence of democracy in Nigeria. “As a responsible and law abiding organisation, the NA reaffirms its unalloyed loyalty and commitment to the President, Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria President Muhammadu Buhari and the Constitution of the Country. “The NA hereby warns all subversive elements and trouble makers to desist from such acts as it remains highly committed to defend the country and her democracy at all cost. “The NA is ready to fully support the civil authority in whatever capacity to maintain law and order and deal with any situation decisively. “All officers and men are directed never to be distracted by anti democratic forces and agents of disunity”.