The Board of Directors of Fidelity Bank Plc has appointed Henry Obih as an Independent Non-Executive Director. The board also appointed Kenneth Opara as an Executive Director. Both appointments have been approved by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). Obih’s appointment takes effect from September 21. Opara will on January 1, 2021 take over the leadership of the Lagos & Southwest Directorate from Mrs. Nneka Onyeali-Ikpe, the Managing Director/CEO-designate. He was the Group Executive Director/Chief Operating Officer (GED/COO), Downstream, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) until his retirement in 2019 and was subsequently appointed to the Board of Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas Limited (NLNG) in July 2020. Opara currently serves as General Manager/Regional Bank Head, Ikeja Region, with over 29 years’ experience in banking. He worked at various financial institutions including legacy Omega Bank Plc, Equatorial Trust Bank Plc and Manny Bank Plc, before joining Fidelity Bank Plc in 2006, following its merger with Manny Bank Plc. In a statement yesterday, the bank also announced that Mrs. Nneka Onyeali-Ikpe will succeed Nnamdi Okonkwo who retires as Managing Director/CEO on December 31 after completing his contract tenure in line with the internal policies of the bank. Chairman, Board of Directors, Fidelity Bank Plc, Mustafa Chike-Obi, said: “Both appointments are in furtherance of our positioning for the next growth phase.  We welcome Henry and Ken to the Board and believe they will make significant contributions that will sustain the performance trajectory of the Bank in line with our strategic intent”. The retiring CEO said: “The appointment of Ken is well deserved and in line with our succession planning policy. He has made significant contributions to the growth of the Region as well as the various Divisions he has headed in the bank”. Obih joins the Board of Fidelity Bank Plc with significant cross-functional work experience and exposure spanning over three decades, across different climes including Africa, Europe, Asia and the Americas. He has extensive experience in project and performance management, manufacturing and operations management, sales and marketing, strategy and business planning/analysis, business development/re-engineering, general management, corporate governance and risk management. Prior to joining NNPC as GED/COO in 2016, Obih had a stellar 22-year career at Mobil Oil Nigeria (ExxonMobil Nigeria Downstream) and held several high-profile positions in the company including being Executive Director, Retail and Executive Director, Operations, Customer Service and Logistics.