No fewer than four Police officers were confirmed dead and two injured in Anambra during the recent #EndSARS protests in the state by hoodlums. Mr. John Abang, Commissioner of Police in Anambra said this in Awka on Wednesday during the parade of 17 suspected hoodlums. The list of 17 suspects paraded indicated that 10 of them were indigenes of Anambra, four from Ebonyi and three from Abia. Abang said 11 Police Stations were burnt down and six vandalised during which the hoodlums carted away motorcycles, ammunition and other valuables. He said about 20 vehicles were razed, including an Armoured Personnel Carrier and patrol vehicles. The Commissioner who applauded his men for the professionalism with which they managed the crisis, said the lives of police officers in the state were still in danger as hoodlums were still on their trail and most cannot go home. “It is common knowledge that hoodlums acting under the guise of the “EndSARS” protest attacked Police Stations in some parts of the State which resulted in loss of lives, looting and wanton destruction of property “The hoodlums set ablaze 11 Police Stations, vandalised six, burnt over 20 vehicles, including patrol and exhibit vehicles and an Armoured Personnel Carrier (APC). “The Police also lost some rifles during the attacks. “In the course of these heinous acts, the hoodlums murdered four police officers, including the DPO of Osumenyi Division, CSP Akpan Joseph, ASP Agu Micheal, the Station Officer and a young Police Corporal, Udegbunam Sunday Celestine, while leaving two others injured. “In their state of callousness, the hoodlums also murdered and beheaded Insp. John Oche, attached to the Anti- Cultism Unit and burnt his body while parading the streets with the deceased policeman’s head,” he said. Abang said other private and public property were vandalised and looted by the hoodlums, including the state Revenue House, OCHA Brigade office and private trucks loaded with goods were attacked and valuable property looted. He said the loss of lives and the destruction of property would have been more if his officers and men did not protect Police property gallantly. The Police Commissioner thanked Gov. Willie Obiano, traditional rulers and town unions for their support for the Police at this trying time and for their efforts at bringing peace to the state. “Despite concerted efforts by the hoodlums to create a state of lawlessness in Anambra, the Command stood its ground and repelled their attacks in various formations such as Area Commands in Onitsha, Ogidi, Awada, CPS Onitsha, Inland town and the B Division. “Meanwhile, in the course of the decisive action by the Police, 17 suspects were arrested in connection with the incidents with several exhibits, including one AK47 Rifle stolen from Ogbunike Division, which has been recovered by operatives of the Command,” he added. (NAN)