 THE trio of Ramsey Nouah, Akin Omotoso, and Ayo AY Makun took turns to interact with several Nigerians, Americans, and film lovers in the United States of America at the 2020 edition of the Nollywood in Hollywood. The trio, who are behind three of the most successful and critically acclaimed films of 2019, were all smiles as their films dominated each day of the event to celebrate Nigerian films and culture in Hollywood, California. The 2020 edition of the Nollywood In Hollywood gathering took place in the Egyptian Theater with so much information on Nigeria, Nollywood, and culture on display. Nouah’s ‘Living In Bondage: Breaking Free’ kicked off the event on Friday night, October 2. The night was moderated by Hilliard Guess, the chairman of the Black Writers Caucus of the Writers Guild of America (WGA). Nouah joined the audience for a question and answer segment after the screening. “We want to talk about our culture. We want to talk about our stories. Nollywood In Hollywood was a great opportunity to take our film to a wider audience in Hollywood and beyond. I had a great time,” says Ramsey Nouah, the director and star of the film. On Saturday, October 3, Akin Omotoso led the cast of The Ghost and House of Truth to another screening and question and answer segment that attracted several industry insiders including Ayuko Babu, the founder of the premiere black film festival in the world, the Pan African film festival. On Omotoso’s team were actress Kate Henshaw, actor Fabian Lojede and producer Ego Boyo. The event ended on Sunday with the screening of MERRY MEN 2. Star actor and  comedian Ayo Makun attended the event with his team that included Ufuoma McDermott, Darlington Abuda, and Moses Inwang. Speaking on the screening of his film, AY said, “This was very important for me. I liked the idea of this initiative and the opportunity to reach more fans. I am really thankful to Ose, Alex, and the organizers of Nollywood in Hollywood for what they’re doing for the Nollywood industry. I’m looking forward to returning to more films.” The founder of the event, Ose Oyamendan, reminisced on the birth saying, “Four years ago, I had this idea of bridging the cinematic gap between Nollywood and Hollywood. Every industry needs help. The French, Canadians, Japanese, Chinese, Koreans, British, Italians, and all the big countries have a week where they bring their films to Hollywood. It’s for talent exposure, opportunity to talk about co-productions, and location for future projects. I felt Nigeria and Nollywood needs that. “I was clear about our objectives. First, we wanted people to see the films because we want exposure to talent and our culture. That was like our three-year plan. If that succeeds, we will try to fill gaps in training, in co-production, distribution, and location.”