A Deputy Director in the Sokoto State Civil Service, Mr. Aminu Abdullahi Mega, has been jailed for 10 years by the Sokoto State High court for N2.6 million fraud. He was sentenced for embezzling the cash meant  for the construction of borehole at Sokoto Agriculture Development Project (SADP) Housing Estate in the state. The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), which secured the conviction, accused Mega of producing fake receipts to cover up the fraud. A statement by the Spokesperson for the Mrs. Azuka C. Ogugua, said the Deputy Director pleaded guilty when charged to court. The statement said: “Mega, a deputy director, Infrastructure of the Sokoto Agriculture Development Project (SADP), was earlier arraigned by the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) on a two-count charge bordering on fraudulent diversion of government funds. “ICPC, in a charge sheet filed before Justice Malami Umar, of High Court  3, Sokoto, accused Mr. Mega of fraudulently  converting into personal use, the sum ofN2, 626, 500 being government money meant for the construction of borehole at SADP Housing Estate in the state. “He was also accused of presenting fake receipts to the Commission during investigation to cover the fraud, thereby committing an offence contrary to Sections 16 and 19 of the Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Act, 2000and punishable under the same section. “He pleaded guilty when the charge was read to him.” But  ICPC counsel, Mashkur Salisu, who had earlier tendered before the court,  documents showing evidence of recoveries made from the convict by the Commission, prayed the judge to sentence him as charged according to the provisions of Section 273 (2) of the Administration of Criminal Justice Law 2019 of Sokoto State. The prayer was not opposed by counsel to the accused, Mr. A. Danbuwa, even as he pleaded with the court to be lenient to his client. Danbuwa cited Sections 309, 310, 415 and 510 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Law, Sokoto State, 2019, and considering the fact that the convict had returned the proceeds of the fraud to the commission. Justice Umar after the plea sentenced the convict to 10 years imprisonment, five years on each count which would be served concurrently. The ruling also includes an option of fine of N90, 000 on each of the counts.