As Ogun State joins the global community to mark the 2020 World Tourism Day, the state government has stated its readiness to build a world-class entertainment village that would promote tourism and rural development in the state. The state governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, made this known at the celebration of the 43rd edition of the day, themed: “Tourism and Rural Development” held on virtual with transmission from the June 12 Cultural Centre,  Kuto, Abeokuta. Represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Mr.  Olatokunbo Talabi, Abiodun stated that the entertainment village would reposition the state socioeconomic value and sustain tourism development. Abiodun said his administration would continue to implement programmes and policies that are capable of boosting the tourism industry, saying the role tourism plays in human endeavours cannot be underestimated. The state Commissioner for Culture and Tourism, Dr. Oluwatoyin Taiwo, while delivering the speech of the United Nations World Tourism Organisation, Secretary-General, Zurab Pololikashvih, said tourism, being a driver of rural development, if well harnessed and utilized, would keep the global community on track in achieving the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Dr.  Taiwo enjoined stakeholders in the industry to live up to their responsibilities at ensuring that the benefits of tourism are enjoyed by all, adding that “although tourism has proved to be a lifeline for rural communities, its true force is yet to be fully deployed”. In his goodwill message, the Chairman, House Committee on Information, Culture and Tourism, Ogun State House of Assembly, Honourable Yusuf Adejojo, pledged that due process would be put in place by giving legislative support to promote tourism in the state, urging all concerned to be diligent in enriching and developing culture and tourism in the state. The virtual celebration had in attendance, the Chief of Staff to the Governor, Alhaji Shuaib Salisu; Commissioner for Rural Development, Engr. Taiwo Oludotun; her counterpart in the Ministry of Health, Tomi Coker; Chief Executive Officer, West Africa Tourism Organisation, Ola Wright; President, Kotco Group; and Dr. Kola Oyefeso, among others.