These must be such seasons when words conveniently loose their meanings. In the course of rummaging through tomes of materials sent to this newspaper for publication in its Op-Ed pages, the word – massacre – was noticeably, freely bandied in the bid to describe the terrible events of last Tuesday. Thanks to the social media and its new-found power of subversion, it is hard to know what to believe in the situation where a group would stream live the obituary of an activist only for the subject in question resurrect in another social media platform! And so like the search for a lone needle in a pile of hay, not only has the quest for the truth increasingly proving hazardous, the word seems to have lost its meaning, buried in the toxic mass being daily spewed by the grandmasters in the cyber-sphere. And so here we are – exactly a week after, still quibbling about whether to count the number of the dead in Lekki on October 20 in scores or in the dozen as if such would either lessen the pain of bereavement or mitigate the gravity of the crime. Now, with anarchy since loosed upon the land, it’s probably superfluous at this time to begin with hard questions as to what happened that fateful night. Which is a pity really considering that the event of the night actually marked the turning point in the long-drawn but largely peaceful protest? So how many died? Eight, 15 or 78? Better still, who ordered the fire to be opened on a group of unarmed protesters? Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu has spoken loud and clear: he neither had the authority to deploy the army nor did he at any point set them loose on the protesters. No one appears to believe him. Not even his strident denial that the state government ordered the removal of the security cameras at the toll gate. In any case, he was quick to remind that his office as governor conferred no such authority to deploy any troops. In a society driven more by emotions by reason, it’s probably a tough call to expect anyone to believe a governor who has shown admirable leadership in the face of an unprecedented crisis. The same of course could be said of attempt to understand the circumstances under which the dark forces came to be unleashed on the innocent protesters. Guess it’s convenient to live in denial that some rogue elements in the security establishment may have played some part.  Trust Nigerians to dispense with the niceties of rigour at a time like this – that painstaking attention needed to connect those tiny dots needed to unravel the mystery – one half may have appear to have long made up their minds before the facts come tumbling in; half of the other half are probably still out there looking for the facts to fit into their theories of what could have happened. As for the rest, they can only gawk in horror at the fast-unfolding post-truth world of alternative facts! We must of course keep this in mind: nothing in the dust being stoked could be said to mitigate the tragedy of the current time. We are talking of lives brutally terminated in circumstances that were clearly avoidable. Of the lives of young, idealistic Nigerians needlessly wasted for the only crime of daring to protest against police brutality. Having said that, there is yet another layer of tragedy that must be seen as no less disturbing: the crass exploitation of the unfolding crisis by those who apparently have different agendas in view or have some axes to grind. In this, only the extremely naïve would fail to observe a certain pattern in the wave of destruction that has taken place across Lagos. Here, I am not talking of the scenes of giant warehouses being flung open by the hordes of rioters being presented as another reason for the mob to hate the so-called leaders. I do understand why the best of arguments would not suffice to assuage the anger of those who see the lock up of those critical supplies as another evidence of our officials’ greed and callousness. And while one needs no tutorials in basic sociology to appreciate that the rampaging army now variously descried as hoodlums and thugs are the very by-products of our iniquitous socio-economic system, I do have some worries about the complete breakdown of the national security apparatus at such a time like this. But then, that is for another time and season. For now, my little worry is the pattern of destruction witnessed in Lagos in the past week.  From the palace of the Oba of Lagos – the monument of traditional authority – to the courts, the very symbol of the justice system; to the rioters, nothing was considered sacrilege. Not even the multi-billion naira forensic laboratory said to be the best in the West African sub region, the brand new BRT buses – the new face of public transportation in Lagos was spared. So also were media houses like TVC, The Nation newspapers and Lagos Television. Talk of a careful method to a contrived madness! And the target? One lone individual adjudged as in the Biblical Prophet Elijah as the Troubler of Israel! You want to know what I think. I do not need to be a conspiracy theorist to sniff the work of fifth columnists in last week’s tragedy; the early evening raid on the protesters says a lot; nor could one pretend to be blind to the macabre political dance already playing out in the build up to the 2023 elections. Now, that is a story for another day. As for the effusive indignation of the self-proclaimed Atona Yoruba, you can put it to local grudge, the destructive force of hate – the sort that perennial losers indulge when their opponents are beyond their reach. For now, let’s join the hard working Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to mourn the despoliation of our dear Lagos. Afterwards, we can then loudly proclaim – there’s no killing the Lagos Spirit!