ADEGBOLA: My name is Adegbola and I am the Chairman of NUP Research Institute Branch (Nigerian Stored Products Research Institute Unit). Kindly help us check from PTAD the whereabout of four check-off dues deducted from our pensions for the first three years when we joined PTAD. We could not open the bank account at the time because of some internal issues. We have since resolved the issues, opened an account and notified PTAD. We also asked PTAD to start the deduction of check- off dues from our members with immediate effect but no response and no action. PTAD: The union should scan and send a copy of their earlier letter to complaints@ptad.gov.ng to enable us review and update them on the status of their complaint. They should also provide contact phone number to enable us contact them. MEDU: I retired in 2006, under the old NEPA/PHCN and by transition from NELMCO to PTAD. My monthly pension of January and March 2015 were omitted. I have done all that I was told to do. I went to PTAD  up to five times with no positive result.  My complaints were published several times in The Nation Newspaper. Plsease  intervene for me. PTAD: Parastatals Pensions Department is presently working to resolve complaints of all verified pensioners. However,  the pensioner is advised to scan and send his pensioner’s verification acknowledgement slip to complaints@ptad.gov.ng to enable us review and update him on the status of his complaint. He should also provide his contact phone number to enable us contact him. ANNONYMOUS: Please I want to know why federal pension is not reviewed despite the fact that workers have collected their arrears. PTAD PTAD: We have not received any circular on the review of pension rate for pensioners. He can call PTAD on 09-4621700 or 080022557823 for further clarification. AUDU: My name is Audu, I retired from Federal Polytechnic Idah. What’s the fate of PTAD pensioners as regards review and the new minimum wage now? PTAD: We have not received any circular on the review of pension rate for pensioners. He can call PTAD on 09-4621700 or 080022557823 for further clarification UDUEHI: My name is Uduehi, a pensioner from Delta Steel Co Ovian Aladja. PTAD has been paying our pension since we were verified but some pensioners were not paid August 2019 pension. We started getting our pension regularly from September 2019 till February 2020 so we are grateful to PTAD. Kindly help us ask PTAD whether we have lost our August 2019 pension or when are we going to be paid? . PTAD: Affected pensioners should scan and send their pensioner’s verification acknowledgement slips and original stamped and signed bank statements from May 2019 to date to date to complaints@ptad.gov.ng to enable us review and resolve  their complaints. They should also provide their contact phone numbers to enable us contac them. FASUYI: Dear Omobola, my name is Fasuyi, a military pensioner who retired in 1979 as Corporal with effective pension date of 16/10/2015. After my verification at Akure Military Barack on 16/10/2015, I have not received any money since my retirement. Please I need your help do not let me die in vain and suffering after serving my nation with all my mind. I am waiting to hear from you. PTAD:  This pensioner is not under PTAD because he said he worked and retired in the Nigerian Army. He should direct his complaint to Military Pensions Board not PTAD. We contacted the pensioner today on his mobile phone to advise him accordingly. OWAH: The Cross River State Association of Retired Permanent Secretaries wish to bring to your notice that PTAD verified Cross River pensioners in February 2017, collected photocopies of our Blue papers for payment of our federal share of harmonised pensions arrears but has not paid up till date. We addressed a humble appeal dated February 26, 2020 to Dr. Chioma Ejikeme, Executive Secretary, PTAD to no avail.  Please come to our aid. PTAD: Parastals Pensions Department is presently working to resolve complaints of all verified pensioners. However, this pensioner is advised to scan and send his pensioner’s verification acknowledgement slip to complaints@ptad.gov.ng to enable us review and update him on the status of his complaint. He should also provide his contact phone number to enable us contact him. BULUKU: Kindly pursue my federal share of gratuity for me, the amount involved is N88,833. I am already on federal civil pension monthly pay role. I hope you will find more information for me please. I remain your retiree. PTAD: This pensioner is advised to scan and send his pensioner’s verification acknowledgement slip and original stamped and signed bank statement from retirement to date to complaints@ptad.gov.ng to enable us review and resolve his complaint.