 ARMED robbers on Friday bombarded a branch of WEMA bank in Iyin-Ekiti in Irepodun/Ifelodun local government area of Ekiti State. The six-man armed wielding bandits, who arrived the town around 3.30pm, blasted the security doors with an explosive device suspected to be dynamite and carted away several millions of naira in the operation which lasted 40 minutes. This came barely 24 hours after the police raised the alarm that some bandits were planning to invade the state and wreak havoc on the people. An eyewitness confirmed to journalists that the robbers had shot sporadically into the air, thereby scaring residents and traders at the nearby market before gaining entry into the banking hall. The residents were said to have run in different directions due to the severity of the gunshots which the source said had caused tension. Vehicles travelling along the Ado-Iyin-Aramoko-Efon road had to take a detour to prevent being caught in the web of gunshots. “In fact, the police disappointed us. They disappointed the people of Iyin today. The robbers robbed for over 40 minutes without any challenge. “They came in two vehicles, shot into the air and scared the people around away. In fact, those in the nearby market left their commodities and ran for their lives. “The police station in Igede Ekiti was not up to 500 metres, while the police patrol point along the Ado Ekiti road should be a kilometre away, but none of them responded for over 40 minutes the robbers operated. “We thank God nobody was killed, but the agony of the gunshots was too much on the locals”. Confirming the incident, the Police Public Relations Officer, Ekiti Command, Mr. Sunday Abutu, said the police, upon receiving the information, immediately visited the place. “We got a distress call from Iyin Ekiti about the robbery and we immediately dispatched our men and officers to the place. “I want to confirm to you that the robbers are being chased as I speak with you and the determination is to effect their arrest. “We are assuring the people that the hoodlums shall be arrested and brought  to justice. Ekiti is not a safe haven for robbers”.