Global securities market regulators yesterday launched their Fourth World Investor Week (WIW) with more organisations participating in the event than ever before. Under the auspices of the International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), securities regulators, stock exchanges, international organisations, investor associations and other stakeholders from some 100 countries will during the period offer a variety of activities to raise awareness about the importance of investor education and protection in their own jurisdictions, particularly during the COVID- 19 pandemic. While WIW is scheduled for the October 5 to 11, jurisdictions can choose alternative weeks in October or November to stage their events, given the logistical issues and other challenges posed by the pandemic. Many participants have opted to hold their campaigns in a digital format. The World Federation of Exchange has organised a “Ring the Bell for Financial Literacy” ceremony. More than 35 Exchanges and CCPs around the world will ring the bell for financial literacy during the week or offer financial literacy-related activities in support of World Investor Week. The New Zealand Exchange (NZX), in partnership with the NZ Financial Markets Authority, kicked off the event early yesterday with the first ringing of the opening bell. According to IOSCO, a key objective of the WIW is to encourage members, international organisations and other relevant parties to coordinate their activities to promote investor education and protection while also delivering key messages for all investors to help them make sound investment decisions. Part of this year’s campaign is to warn investors not to be tempted to invest in risky products by misleading information. The WIW key messages for  the year highlight the basics of investing, including, among other things, the importance of assessing the impact of fees when choosing an investment and understanding that all investments entail risks. The WIW will again stress last year’s messages regarding online investing, initial coin offerings, crypto-assets and ed-Tech issues, such as digital learning and online education. It will also deliver a new key message about the risk of   investing in these uncertain times caused by COVID-19. IOSCO Secretary General, Paul Andrews noted that every year, WIW attracts growing international support and new participants, thereby underpinning IOSCO´s steadfast commitment to investor education and protection. “This fourth reiteration of WIW is particularly relevant, given the impact of COVID 19 on global capital markets and investor protection,” Andrews said. Chair of IOSCO´s Committee on Retail Investors, José Alexandre Vasco said it was encouraging to see that the number of WIW campaign participants continues to increase, reflecting the growing importance of this event. “I would like to commend the dedication and enthusiasm of the WIW Working Group, and I am confident that this campaign will contribute to enhancing retail investor education and protection in member jurisdictions,”Alexandre Vasco said. 