 VETERAN Yoruba actor Chief Jimoh Aliu was a passionate performer. His film plans in old age showed his enthusiasm for acting and production. Shortly before he died on September 17, at the age of 85, he gave a film director the script of a movie he wanted to make. It was the first of five movies he planned to make to stage a comeback. The director said he “was astonished at the heavy metaphysical content of the movie script.” Aliu told him “he wrote the story to admonish people on the importance of the living taking care of the dead.” He acted two scenes in the movie titled Olowo Ite (the man whose wealth comes from burial sites), said Banji Adelusi, the director.  ”He acted the spiritual sage and the omnipresent narrator from whose perspective we are to see everything that had happened to the protagonist.” Sadly, Aliu’s exit means that he cannot act in any new film or produce one.  But he left behind a number of works he produced for which he would be remembered, including Yanpanyarin, Omiran, Etekete, Fopomoyo, Kumo, Olewu, Igbo Olodumare, Ma Boroje, Afopina, Laalu, Arelu, Igba Oro, Odu Ifa and Orunmila. He was nicknamed ‘Aworo,’ the title of one of his popular plays. His journey to prominence as an artiste started in 1959 when he joined the Akin Ogungbe theatre group, a popular travelling troupe that visited his hometown in present-day Ekiti State. “I offered myself to the troupe and volunteered to help them carry the mobile gas-lamp on my head. That was how I joined the troupe,” he recalled. His time with the group equipped him for bigger dreams, and he formed his own theatre group in 1966.  Between 1967 and 1975, he served in the Nigerian Army, travelling and performing plays to entertain soldiers in the civil war period and after. He returned to drama and resuscitated his cultural group. Significantly, Aliu’s 60-year artistic career, which covered stage productions in the travelling theatre era, radio and television drama, and movies, mirrored developments in the country’s theatre and film industry. He was not only involved in the various stages of the evolution; he was a prominent participant. His involvement in the founding of the Association of Nigerian Theatre Arts Practitioners (ANTP) in the 1970s demonstrated his sense of professionalism. He was indeed a giant in the Yoruba theatre industry as well as the Nollywood Yoruba sub-industry. Apart from acting, he was also a scriptwriter, using the stage and the screen to promote Yoruba culture and tradition. He was Oba Asa of Yoruba land, a title that underlined his role as Yoruba cultural ambassador. His cultural contribution earned him a national honour, Member of the Order of the Federal Republic (MFR); and University of Jos, Plateau State, honoured him with the title Professor of Theatre Arts.  Aliu was internationally recognised, and recollected with a sense of achievement “the day I was invited for an interview at BBC London for ‘Good Morning Africa’ show.” Remarkably, Aliu made a name for himself without the advantage of formal education.  He left school shortly after he started as a result of a strange illness.  According to him, “They sent for my dad; he came and consulted the Ifa oracle. He disclosed that I would die early if I should have education.”   During his stint in the army, he had the opportunity to learn and learnt to express himself in English.  Later, he benefited from international travels, which further helped him to develop. It is striking that he practised Yoruba traditional medicine in the latter years of his life. This added another dimension to his promotion of Yoruba culture beyond language usage. His work as a traditional healer in Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State, involved  ”attending to those wishing to bear children and battling with witchcraft and family problems,” he explained. His last movie, shot close to his death and yet to be released, was a parting shot by a cultural champion.