Lagos on Tuesday inaugurated a committee to review amendments to its Criminal Laws of 2011. Its Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Moyosore Onigbanjo, said this followed the Criminal Justice Sector Reform Committee resolve to bring the laws in conformity with modern crime patterns. According to a statement by Director, Public Affairs at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Kayode Oyekanmi, Onigbanjo spoke via a virtual platform during the inauguration. He said the 14-member committee will conduct a thorough review of the laws, take necessary memoranda from relevant stakeholders. The committee, whose members “were carefully selected,” will submit its recommendations within six weeks.
While recognising the support of the British Council under the Rule of Law and Anti-Corruption (RoLAC) programme, with particular support for law review processes. Onigbanjo charged the committee’s members to devote their time, wealth of knowledge and professional experience to improve the criminal justice system in Lagos. Its chairman, Justice Adenike Coker, while responding on behalf of the members, assured of their commitment to the task, adding that the members would bring their expertise to bear. Another member, Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa SAN, also pledged their readiness to “do a good job.” The ceremony had in attendance Lagos Solicitor-General/Permanent Secretary, Ms Titilayo Shitta-Bey and all inaugurated members. Aside from Justice Coker and Adegboruwa, others on the committee are: Prof. Ayodele Atsenuwa, (Dean, Faculty of Law, University of Lagos), Mrs Adeyinke Adeyemi (Director of Public Prosecution), Mrs A.T Omoyele (Magistrate, Lagos State Judiciary), Dr. Babajide Martins (Director, Office of the Public Defender), Ms. Shakirat Kotun (Director, Community Service), Ms. Adetutu Oshinusi, Deputy Director, Public Prosecution, Mr Joseph Otteh, (Director, Access to Justice), Mr. Jide Bodede (Managing Partner, Lawfields Solicitor & co), Ms. Iyabo Oshodi (SSA to HAG), Mr. Babajide Boye (Assistant Director, DPPs Office), Mrs. Tomi Bodude (Directorate of Legislative Drafting), and Mrs. Bola Akinsete (Secretary).