When people think of travelling abroad to study, so many things come to mind. This may include the course of study, the fund, the destination, and the weather. Canada has always been a hot choice, because of its natural scenic beauty, large unpopulated areas, bustling cities, multicultural ambience, and various job opportunities for international students. Canada is known as a country where quality education is very prevalent. This place has tons of quality and internationally recognized higher institutions. It is a student-friendly country, with the highest literacy rate in the world. Also, according to research, Canada is hailed as one of the best places in the world to live and study. Here are four main reasons why most people choose Canada as their study destination. Attend our free webinar http://bit.ly/admissionhackswebinar to get started. Post-graduation work permit (PGWP) in Canada is more like a right than a privilege. For as minimum as an eight months program of study, an international student is eligible for a work permit upon graduation. PGWP can have up to one to three years span depending on the course duration. This simply means that as a graduate of any Canadian university, you’re automatically eligible for a 1-3years work permit in the country. This is one of the many reasons people choose to study in Canada. A student in Canada who of course must have gotten his/her work permit upon graduation and have worked full-time for up to 6-12months in Canada is eligible to apply for a permanent residency, especially through Canadian Experience Class (CEC). It’s as simple as that. Furthermore, when one becomes a permanent resident in Canada for up to 2-3years, you are qualified to seek citizenship. This is a systematic coordinated process every international student who is eligible can enjoy. With a government that is immigration friendly, excellent facilities for international students, a huge number of job opportunities and various options to become a permanent resident, Canada has valid reasons to become your best choice for study migration. If you’re one of those with a study abroad dream; we @Vantage Migration can help you bring your dreams to reality. With our masterclass program, we will teach you how to apply for admission and scholarship abroad all by yourself, without entrusting your future in the hands of a travel agent. We teach by experience and expertise.  Vantage is your adVANTAGE!