The Nigeria Political Summit Group (NPSG), in conjuction with National Consultative Front (NCFront), has conveyed an Emergency National Dialogue on the Constitutional Future of Nigeria for Thursday. The Summit’s Organising Committee according to Prof. Pat Utomi said that the summit will urgently intervene and set machinery in motion for National Healing and Reconciliation. Utomi said the step was to douse the heightening political tension in the country. According to him, the historic conference, which will be hosted virtually, is tagged National Reconciliation and Healing Summit. Northern and Southern elders and leaders of thought would discuss for constitutional harmony and stability of the country. Utomi said that the virtual summit would  run from 11:00am to 3:00pm on Thursday. “For more clarification, a very competent selection committee of the NPSG has already shortlisted about 120 eminent elders and leaders of thought from across various nationality groups. “Special interest platforms have been nominated by allies of the NPSG to participate in this historic National Confab based on their sterling leadership credentials and contributions toward making Nigeria viable and workable. “To this end, a webinar invitation/pass has been sent to all shortlisted participants to enable them to gain entry into the venue of the maiden virtual Pan Nigerian Confab,” Utomi said. He said some of the eminent Nigerians, who made the selection list include: Chief Emeka Anyaoku, retired Gen. TY Danjuma, Prof. Ben Nwabueze, Dr Ahmed Joda, Prof. Ango Abdullahi, Alhaji Tanko Yakassai, retired Gen. Alani Akinriade, Chief Edwin Clark, Chief Olu Falae and Chief Bisi Akande. Others are: Chief Audu Ogbeh, Alhaji Balarabe Musa, Dr Christopher Kolade, Alabo Graham Douglas, Hajia Inna Ciroma, Dr Paul Unongo, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, Sen. Iyorchia Ayu, Mr Solomon Asemota, retired Gen. ABM Haruna, and Admiral Ndubuisi Kanu. Also, Junaid Mohammed, Chief John Nwodo, Obong Victor Attah, Rt Hon Ghali Na’aba, Amb. Tokunbo Awolowo Dosunmu, Dr Ama Pepple,, Dr Olisa Agbakoba, Mr Donald Duke, Dr Hakeem Baba-Ahmed, Prince Tony Momoh and Dr Obadiah Mailafia. Utomi said the list and 99 other eminent elders and leaders were shortlisted for the special national negotiation meeting.