 THE family of the musician, Daniel Ikeaguchi, popularly called Sleek, who was killed by a policeman in Rivers State and the Civil Society Organisation (CSO)  have called for the prosecution of the killer cop. The family also accused the police of extorting money from them to conduct an autopsy on the body of their son. Father of the deceased, Dominic Ikeaguchi, who spoke in Port Harcourt, said it was sad the family was made to pay for the autopsy at the University of Port Harcourt Teaching Hospital (UPTH) despite knowing that Sleek was killed by policemen. He said: “I paid for the autopsy. Before I paid for it, I asked the doctor (Police pathologist) in the presence of the police officers that took us there who is the owner of this result? “He said it is the police. I said, them why am I paying for it? He replied that it is the system. I paid one N100, 000 for the autopsy. I also paid transportation for the policemen from the Police headquarter and back after the autopsy. “The mortuary attendants demanded N10,000 from me probably to take care of my son’s body and other expenses I made. That day alone I spent almost N200, 000″. The leader of the state Civil Society Organization, Enefaa Georgewill, condemned  the alleged extortion by the police and called for the immediate prosecution of the policeman involved the killing. Georgewill said: “We wonder why the police is still delaying in the name of orderly room trial over three weeks now. By now they ought to have arraigned their men in Court. The facts speaks for itself, the issues are clear, the videos are there. He (sleek) was shot unarmed. “Our laws are clear, especially as it relates to section seven of the anti-torture Act. That section clearly spells out what should happen if a citizen is tortured or killed through any inhuman or cruel manner. To make it worse, up till now, the Commissioner of Police, Joseph Mukan is yet to visit the family of Sleek. “We also demand that the policemen should be arraigned in Court. We are not comfortable with prolong orderly room trial.”  