Suspected major dealer in Indian hemp Martins Okwor has been arrested by police in Niger State. No fewer than 50 bags of the hard drug were found on him during his arrest, police said. Martins denied ownership of the bags during his parade yesterday. He said the bags belonged to his friend who contacted him that his goods were seized and that he should help him retrieve them from the police. Martins confirmed that it was the second time he was arrested for such a crime, though he insisted that he is a chemist and not a drug dealer. “My friend called me that they intercepted his goods which is Indian hemp and he ran away because of fear of being arrested,” he said. “Because I know the DPO and the vigilantes that arrested the goods, I decided to go and meet them for the goods to be released. “I admit this is my second time that you are seeing me here but this is not my business. I have a chemist shop. I am only helping a friend because of where I was based and where the goods were seized. Yes, I am aware that it was Indian hemp that was seized but I am only helping my friend.” When asked what he stood to gain if he secured the release of the hard drug, Martins said, “I do not have any benefit from intervening and wanting to see the release of my friend’s goods.” Commissioner of Police Adamu Usman, while parading the suspect in Minna, the state capital, said that Martin’s friend from whom the goods were intercepted was conveying 70 bags of Indian hemp from Abuja to Gwada. He said that Godwin succeeded in escaping with 20 bags while 50 bags were seized. He explained that after some days of seizing the goods, Martins Okwor surfaced and claimed the ownership of the 50 bags recovered. Usman said he believes that it is a syndicate of dealers of Indian hemp who conduct business in Niger State, adding that effort to arrest Godwin and recover the remaining bags is ongoing. The Commissioner further disclosed the recovery of 134 wraps of dried leaves suspected to be Indian hemp in a bush along Mokwa-Jebba Road. He said that police operatives attached to Mokwa Division are making efforts to arrest the suspect. The Commissioner reiterated the Command’s commitment to ensuring a safe and secured environment in the state, urging the people to provide useful information to the police for prompt intervention.