A Makurdi High Court has ordered that court processes be served on the publisher of Sahara Reporters, Omoyele Sowore through substituted means in the N150 million libel suit instituted by Benue State governor, Samuel Ortom against the publisher. Also joined in the suit is a certain Sesugh Akume. The presiding judge, Justice Augustine Ityonyiman gave the order while ruling on an ex parte motion which was argued by Governor Ortom’s counsel, Richard Ayila. Justice Ityonyiman ordered that the originating summons and other processes in the matter be served on the publisher of Sahara Reporters by posting the same on the e-mail address and website of Sahara Reporters. “In consequence an order is hereby made for substituted service on the 1st defendant by pasting or posting on the e-mail address and website of Sahara Reporters (www.saharareporters.com) the writ of summons, statement of claim, accompanying processes and all or subsequent processes in this matter,” the judge ordered. Ortom in the suit among other things, averred that the publisher of Sahara Reporters and Sesugh Akume defamed his reputation, lowered his integrity and engendered hatred on him in an online publication on September 8th, 2020 published by Sahara Reporters, Opera news and a press release on August 28, 2020 which was circulated on Facebook alleged that the governor of Benue State illegally deducts local government funds in the state. Among the reliefs sought by Ortom are: “An order that the online publications made by the defendants on September 8, 2020 in Sahara Reporters, Opera News and the  press release of August 28,2020 on the Facebook timeline of the second defendant are libelous, defamatory, undermined his (Ortom) integrity and it tantamount to hate speech. “An order that the defendants tender an unreserved written apology to the Plaintiff for printing defamatory words and spreading hate speech on September 8,2020 and August 28,2020 on Sahara Reporters, Facebook and Opera News which shall be published in 2 daily newspapers that one must have a national circulation and coverage and the same platforms mentioned above. “An order of perpetual injunction restraining the defendants, their agents, privies, assigns, servants and whosoever claims through or from them from publishing, printing, saying, representing or indicating in any manner whatsoever any defamatory words or hate speech capable of lowering the reputations, undermine the integrity of the plaintiff, inviting disloyalty and bringing the name of the plaintiff to obloquy.” The cost sought by the governor in the suit includes “An Order of compensation and general damages of N150 million only against the defendants for libelous words published and printed against the plaintiff which defamed his (Ortom’s) reputation, lowered his integrity and engendered hatred on him.”