APC UK is an integral part of APC Nigeria, aimed at creating all-inclusive leadership and opportunities for Nigerians in the Diaspora. This initiative is rooted as part of the core values of the party, which is APC and as such, leadership, equality and transparency is purported to be the holy grail of the APC UK. It’s no secret that APC is a party formed from various political parties with different ideologies, which makes it normal for people or group of individual to have opinions that may sometimes clash with others but that’s the essence of the rule of law, a set of rules and regulations governing the party moving forward. The APC UK chapter, from inception, has been a party that prides itself in integrity of the rule of law that must be strictly adhered to and some members of the party (in the UK) can attest to the fruits and success this has recorded over time. But there’s a problem looming on the horizon, which can derail the success and progress the party in the UK has recorded over the years. The very thread that holds the fabrics of the APC UK together is being undermined by an unrecognized faction claiming to be ‘leaders’ of the Party and being led by Mr. Ade Omole. We must be crystal clear on these developments. These people are not leaders of the APC UK; they can appear on the internet, send messages, invite people to meetings and organize all sorts of gatherings but these do not make them “leaders” of the APC UK Chapter. This group has been causing a lot of confusion, sowing seeds of discord in the APC UK with its flagrant disregard for the rule of law, which is a slight on the leadership of the APC UK. The group has been using social media platforms as its Trojan horse to usurp leadership by preying on the vulnerability of members willing to serve and protect the integrity of the APC UK. Sometimes, the group post pictures taken with the bigwigs of the Party, granting interviews to whoever cares to listen, organizing meetings online with a targeted few under false pretenses and creating all sorts of commotion in his desperation to attract cheap media publicity. Perhaps, it should be properly enunciated that the APC UK is not run on the internet or any social media platforms. The APC UK is a chapter of APC with a firm foundation and structure headed by people of integrity and public trust and it is important to note that the future of the APC UK will not and never be in the hands of persons that hide behind their keyboard causing all manner of distraction, dragging as many people down with themselves as possible and the APC UK chapter do not deserve the opprobrium. Any directive coming from any group other than the Party led by Dr. Phillip Idaewor should be disregarded, as nobody made the head of the group the mouthpiece of the APC UK. He was never a leader, neither was he part of the formation of the APC UK. Before one can attain position of leadership in a party system such as ours, one must be a good follower and preacher of the rule of law, for these are the basic requirements, which define the major characteristics of a leader. It becomes imperative for members of the APC UK to take heed lest they allow this impostor group to contaminate the good works the APC UK started even before some of them thought of joining the party as floor members. Like every house, there are builders and there are those that are willing to disrupt progress and peace through whatever crooked means that are available to them. Whatever it is, this is not the time to stand on the fence, this is a time for action, loyalty, commitment and asking salient questions that can either take the party forward or create divisions amongst existing members, which is the very aim of the impostor group. We have recorded countless instances where some individuals, in their desire to mislead the public, claimed undue credits for events hosted and sponsored by the executives of the APC UK. An example is the symposium which some of them took pictures from the venue and of the speakers, then spreading the pictures all over Facebook, Instagram and other social media platforms, claiming to be the brain behind it, which is a lie from the pit of hell. They were never part of the planning committee and contributed nothing whatsoever to the success of the event, this can easily be verified from the chairman, Dr. Philip Idaewor and other members that worked tirelessly for the success of the event. The way forward and the building of unity are dependent on your choice of allegiance as members. This group of people is hell-bent on sabotaging the efforts of leaders of the APC UK that are recognized by the national chairman of the APC in Nigeria from formation of the party in 2013 and being the approved diaspora chapter. This unrecognized group of people, parading as ‘leaders’ of APC UK, which is certainly not correct, would go to any length in their attempt to destroy and convince people of their intentions. That intention is to illicitly hijack the leadership of the Party. From all indications and empirical observations, it is safe to say these imposters desire a divided house, disunity, disintegration and disorderliness amongst well-meaning members of the Party. Their major aim is to create chaos as a way of creating disunion before revealing their ulterior motives, which is to seize control of the leadership of APC UK through anarchy. This group has been spreading rumours to tarnish the image of the recognized leadership of the Party, all in their efforts to create discombobulation and doubt amongst both existing and intending members of the APC UK. They are not recognized by the national chairman of the APC; they have no backing of the APC and as such should be disregarded and excommunicated by any means legally necessary to avoid a divided house. Now that clearer perspective has been presented, it is imperative to note that there’s only one acknowledged leadership of APC UK, this chapter is approved and recognized by APC NEC (National Executive Council) and it is led by Dr Philip Idaewor. This fact is easily verified by contacting the Party’s office at Abuja. The objective of the Party is to create visible and sustainable developments through collective efforts of members of the Party at all levels, not to create room for any form of insubordination whatsoever. The APC UK Chapter has established an exemplary template in leadership, which is all down to the efforts and commitments of the chairman, Dr. Idaewor, who has made it his priority to create an environment where members can thrive in their various pursuits and ambitions in line with the vision of the Party. With the help of the Secretary, Hon. Francis Akpan Inwang alongside the Deputy Chairman, Hon. Tunde Doherty, the chapter has succeeded in bridging the gap between the leaders and Nigerians in the Diaspora and will continue to put the people first. The full dividends of the party will be felt by all, which is the essence of leadership in a democratic dispensation such as ours in the APC UK. The potential of the APC UK is immeasurable and vital in the general progress of the APC as a Party and now is the time to put in the hard work as a united body and root out weeds in form of a junto camouflaging as ‘leaders’ that would cause more harm than good. Anyone or group of persons that selfishly subvert the progress of a group is a threat and must be treated with caution, which entails meticulous, strategic planning and execution. In a party system, we progress together and we lift everyone together like a chain reaction. “No one is important but everyone is important,” and the door would remain open for people that share the same vision as that of the APC UK, which is transparency, progress and developments. A wise man once said “Lord take care of my friends; I can handle my enemies.” The question is, are you a friend or an enemy? Would you rather join force with a group of unrecognized few that is desperately fighting to attain power at all cost or join the train of progressives and effect change while you still can? It is entirely up to us to do the right thing and use our time and efforts where they count and could amount to something beneficial not just to individuals but to people around and a party that needs us. The APC UK needs members with unflinching support and loyalty to root out those saboteurs that are enemies within and beyond, people that will go to any length to see us fail and it starts with us as individuals by being particular about the information we believe and those we associate with as Party members. People or interested members should do due diligence before jumping on frivolities from social media and avoid participating in theatrics by some few individuals to swindle their loyalty to the party. Members of the Party must come together and continuously work as a unit that cannot be divided. Like a broom, which is the symbol of our Party, if we stick together, we can never be broken.