Osun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola and his deputy, Mr. Benedict Alabi, on Sunday toured the state to inspect the degree of damages and looting of public and private properties. The governor issued a 72-hour amnesty for looters to return looted properties across the state. The inspection was done alongside the Speaker House of Assembly, Timothy Owoeye and other exco members. Places visited by the governor include Tuns Farm International, Osun Mall, National Silo, Ilesha, Leventis Foundation, All Progressives Congress (APC) secretariat, Osogbo, Omoluabi Garment Factory, Ileri Oluwa Campaign Office among others. Oyetola, who spoke at Tuns Farm International, described the attack and looting of the firm, which led to the death of a worker identified as Abdul-Rasheed Olawale, as unfortunate. The governor lamented that the attack on the establishment was aimed at destabilising the business activities in the state. “It is very unfortunate and what I have seen here is massive looting and armed robbery. Someone used his money to create jobs and in one day, all is gone. This is not all about #EndSARS, but poor looting. We have been talking to the protesters that it has been hijacked. “The level of the damage is massive to the extent of losing a life. This is a planned destruction.” Oyetola, who also addressed reporters after inspecting Omoluabi Garment, bemoaned the stealing of sophisticated sewing machines at the factory. He said: “This is not about hoodlums but armed robbery. They removed all the machines in this factory, which is very unfortunate. Those who participated in looting should return it. Those machines that were stolen have serial numbers, which can be easily traced. So, I implored them to return them within 72-hour to the traditional rulers or the local government chairmen around them. If they do that on their own, they are pardoned, but if they fail to do so, we shall get them. It is an opportunity now to return them with 72 hours. We have enough evidence to track the looters.” “Hoodlums and armed robbers took advantage of the protest to perpetuate their evil plans. I appeal to our youths to be law-abiding and ensure peace of the state.” The firm’s chairman, Asiwaju Tunde Badmus, said he lost a member of staff as a result of the looting. His words: “Those people that came to loot this company, they shot dead one of my staff. What I lost to this looting are worth over N150 million aside from the machines that were lost. “We have reported the suspects to the police and we believe that they will do their job.” At National Silo, Ilesha, it was revealed that over 1,163 tonnes of grains were carted away.