 Mesut Ozil has been given no assurances he will be included in Arsenal’s Premier League squad next week. Ozil has not played for the club since March but manager Mikel Arteta explained he and defender Sokratis were omitted from his Europa League plans so his squad could comply with UEFA rules. Arteta is facing the same headache ahead of naming his 25-man Premier League squad on Tuesday, with his group containing 19 foreign players, two more than they are allowed to register. Asked if Ozil would be in it, Arteta sidestepped the question, saying: ‘He wasn’t the only one who was not in the Europa League squad. ‘It is a difficult decision for me to make because to leave players out of the squad, where they know they cannot get involved, is tough. ‘I don’t like it at all, but unfortunately the decision has to be made because we have an excess of foreign players.’ Arteta, whose side return to league action against Manchester City on Saturday, told Ozil and Sokratis face-to-face they were being left out and hinted they have two months to prove him wrong as he can tinker with his squad in January. Arteta said: ‘They have to respect that decision, try to train the best possible way, help the team as best they can and see what happens.’ However, Arsene Wenger revealed it is quite simple to get the best from Mesut Ozil. The former Arsenal manager signed the playmaker from Real Madrid in 2013, but has been frozen out under current boss, Mikel Arteta. “Mesut Ozil is a great player and a creative player, but you have to balance the team because on the defensive side of it it is not his strength,” Wenger told talkSPORT. “He needs freedom to express his talents. He does the work but he is not very efficient. “Mikel Arteta has gone for a team with counter-pressing and who play high up, and everybody has to work hard so that is a bit of handicap for him. “But he is not a bad character – he is a good guy. It just depends what kind of football you want to play.” Signed from Real Madrid for £42m in 2013, Wenger loved the skill possessed by Ozil and together won two FA Cups. Robert Pires, Cesc Fabregas and Thierry Henry all had the flair and panache the legendary boss loves and in his book, referred to Ozil’s playing style as ‘magical and simple’. Asked about the role of a no.10 in the modern game he added: “I would say that it is a bit of a contradiction because when you think about it, the guys who see, make you win, the guys with the vision and who can give the ball, make you win. “At the end of the day football is a bit like a quarterback who gives the ball to a runner and the runner is good enough to put the ball in the net. If you have those two in the team you always have a chance. “You can build a team in two ways; you can have one guy who needs the ball and two or three who put the ball in the net and I balance the team around them, or you say you want everybody to work like mad when we don’t have the ball and try after that to score goals.