 AFRICAN Alliance Insurance Plc is considering divestment to raise more capital and boost its recapitalisation plan. The board of the insurance company has scheduled the divestment as a special business for the consideration of shareholders at the company’s annual general meeting later this month. According to the proposal, shareholders are expected to pass three resolutions authorising the “directors to divest from any existing investment assets in furtherance of the recapitalisation objectives of the company”. Shareholders are expected to also authorise the directors to appoint such advisers, professionals and parties that they deem necessary upon such terms and conditions that the directors may deem appropriate with regard to the divestment. The meeting is also expected to mandate the board to take all steps and do all acts that they deem necessary for the successful implementation of the divestment. Insurance companies are in a hot race to raise new equity capital to meet new minimum capital requirements for various insurance functions as directed by the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM). NAICOM had in May 2019 released new capital requirements for insurance businesses with a 13-month compliance period for operators to shore up their minimum capital base to the required level. The minimum paid-up share capital of a life insurance company was increased from N2 billion to N8 billion, non-life insurance from N3 billion to N10 billion, composite insurance from N5 billion to N18 billion while re-insurance companies were directed to raise their capital base from N10 billion to N20 billion. Shareholders of African Alliance had at the last annual general meeting thrown their weight behind the board and management of the company in their ongoing quest to reposition the firm and fully recapitalise it before the deadline set by the NAICOM. Chairman, African Alliance, Dr Anthony Okocha, explained that the company’s recapitalisation plan involves a combination of strategies including new equity injection by existing and new investors, assets conversion as well as possible merger. He commended shareholders for their continuous faith in the business over the years noting that despite the odds, the firm is rapidly on the path to prosperity as evidenced by the improvements in the financial statement. “There is no doubt we are on the rise again, considering where we were before now. In the period under review, our profit after tax decreased from a loss of N6.72b in 2017 to a loss of N2.4bn in 2018. It is important to note that the bulk of these year-on-year losses were technical arising from the drop in interest rates which significantly affected the returns on annuity assets that accounted for 96% of the company’s business portfolio. By the time the 2019 results are released, you would see how your company has turned the bend,” Okocha said.  