Almost three months after demise of spokesperson of Lagos Assembly, Hon. Tunde Braimoh, the Assembly is yet to have an official spokesperson. The spokesperson is usually chairman of the House Committee on Information and Strategy. The late Braimoh passed on July 9, 2020. Observers are however surprised it is taking the leadership of the Assembly this long to come up with a replacement considering importance of the position. They are also surprised an Assembly as vibrant as the Lagos Assembly that prides itself as ‘above the common standards of excellence’ could run for almost three months without an official spokesperson. Investigation by The Nation revealed it is the responsibility of leadership to appoint another spokesperson. Unlike a by-election, which has to be conducted by INEC within three months of the demise or removal of a lawmaker, nothing stops the leadership of the Assembly from appointing a replacement immediately. A lawmaker, who agreed to speak only on condition of anonymity, said there is nothing in the House rules that says such a sensitive position should be left vacant for such a long time even when there are many qualified and competent alternatives in the House. “It all goes to show that the leadership does not attach any importance to publicity or does not even care about the information management of the House,” he said. He added “it is a job any of the lawmakers currently in the House can handle because it does not really require you having any experience as a journalist. “All we just need is somebody who is simple, down to earth, humble and with good public and human relations. “The last spokesperson and the one before him didn’t have any background or experience as journalists yet you can not say they did not perform well, even the one before the late Braimoh, I mean Hon. Segun Olulade, is today the toast of almost every journalist after just four years as the chairman of committee on information. So what is the big deal?” Other lawmakers approached for comment on the issue refused to talk even when assured that their names will not be in print.