The Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, on Friday gave the police rank and file the nod to protect themselves henceforth if they are attacked. Adamu, who spoke in Abuja against the background of the attacks on police personnel during the recent #ENDSARS protests, said 22 of his men were killed during the mayhem unleashed by hoodlums and looters who hijacked the rallies. Many others were wounded with some in life threatening conditions in hospitals, he said at the start of an assessment tour of the Federal Capital Territory Police Command, Abuja. He said 205 police stations across the country were also set ablaze. In Rivers State alone, members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) killed six soldiers and four policemen under the guise of the recent #ENDSARS protest in the state, according to Governor Nyesom Wike. The IG’s tour is part of the effort of the police authorities to boost the morale of the police which is believed to have been deflated by the violence and destruction that trailed the #ENDSARS protests. Adamu said no amount of insults and provocation would make the police abandon their responsibilities of protecting lives and property. The IGP said policemen are also human and have a right to life and should protect themselves if they find themselves in any dangerous situation that threatens their lives. He lauded them for what he called their professionalism and efforts to protect lives and property as well as maintain law and order during the #ENDSARS protests. He pledged that adequate compensation would be made available to the families of all policemen that lost their lives during the protests. “The unity of this country lies in the support that is given to police officers, because if you are demoralised, the tendency is for criminals to take over the public space, and the country is relying on us to make sure that the public space is not taken over by criminals. “So, no amount of provocation, no amount of insult would make us shy away from our responsibilities,” he said. Continuing, he said: “I saw how you went to deal with the difficult situation in order to maintain peace and order. This happened because of the #ENDSARS protest, which was supposed to be peaceful but turned violent. “Despite all the attacks by protesters, you went about to protect them. It became dangerous even for police officers. Individuals were attacked and vehicles and property destroyed. “I thank you for showing restraint. You acted professionally. The aim was to demoralise you, but you were exceptional. “For those that lost their lives all over the country during the #ENDSARS protests, they will not die in vain. There will be adequate compensation for them in an extensive manner. They served the country at the expense of their lives. “If anyone assaults you, you can protect yourselves. When we talk of human rights, the police are human. Their lives should also be protected. We are sending the message that legally, we have the right to protect ourselves. “When we talk of human rights, the police are human, so the rights of police officers would also be protected. “So, we are sending the message that legally, we have the right to protect ourselves, but while we are doing that, we make sure that until we are endangered. “Inasmuch as we are aware that the government is behind us, we would encourage you to keep performing your duties. We would encourage you to be professional, to be civic. “But if anybody touches you, if anybody comes to assault you, you can also protect yourself.” He said the police would soon make public the package they have for officers that lost their lives during the protests. In a separate statement on Friday, the Force Headquarters said 22 police personnel were killed while many others were injured by #ENDSARS protesters. In the statement signed by the Force Public Relations Officer, DCP Frank Mba, the police said many others were injured. Some of the injured personnel are in life threatening conditions in hospitals, according to him. Mba also said 205 police stations and formations, including other critical private and public buildings, were also damaged by a section of the protesters. The Police were responding to a report by Amnesty International (AI) that protesters were shot at. The Force Headquarters said that contrary to the AI report, the police acted professionally, exercised commendable restraints and some paid the supreme price during the protests. Dismissing the Amnesty International report as untrue, misleading and contrary to all available empirical evidence, the IGP said that during the protests, officers of the force “used legitimate means to ensure that the protests were carried out in a peaceful manner and in most cases, physically protected and walked side-by-side with the protesters.” It said that even when the protests turned violent in some parts of the country, the officers “still maintained utmost restraint and did not use excessive force in managing the situations.” It added: “Available reports show that twenty-two (22) police personnel were extra-judicially killed by some rampaging protesters and scores injured during the protests. “Many of the injured personnel are in life threatening conditions at the hospitals. “Two hundred and five (205) police stations and formations, including other critical private and public infrastructure, were also damaged by a section of the protesters. “Despite these unprovoked attacks, our police officers never resorted to use of unlawful force or shooting at the protesters as alleged in the report. “It also beggars imagination that Amnesty International failed to mention or pay tribute to police officers who were gruesomely murdered during the protests while serving their fatherland. “The Force decries the discriminatory tendencies exhibited by Amnesty International as seen in the report. “One wonders if in the estimation of Amnesty International, police officers are not also human beings equally entitled to the protection of their fundamental rights to life and dignity of human person. “The IGP, while noting that the Force is committed to the Federal Government’s ongoing holistic reforms of the NPF targeted at improving service delivery, positive police-citizen relationship and respect for human rights, enjoins Amnesty International to ensure they subject their reports to adequate scrutiny and proper verification of facts before making them public.” Also on Friday, the Inspector General of Police inaugurated a nine-man committee to assess losses suffered by the police during the EndSARS protests across the country. He said the idea was informed by the need to take proper documentation of losses suffered by the force during the protest. He said that the documentation was for purposes of strategic planning, reconstruction as well as for future reference. He asked members of the committee, headed by Police Commissioner Abutu Yaro, to see the assignment as a call to serve and must be undertaken with purposefulness, empathy, dedication and sacrifice. The terms of reference of the committee include physical visit to scenes of incidents and pictorial capture of all damages done to police infrastructure and personnel. Adamu said the committee members would be expected to visit the scene of fatalities suffered by the police, establish the weapons holding that were lost during the incident. The committee members are scheduled to visit families of deceased police officers and the injured. The committee has three weeks to submit its report. Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State on Friday confirmed that members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) killed six soldiers and four policemen under the guise of the recent #ENDSARS protest in the state. Wike told a delegation of the Nigerian Guild of Editors (NGE) who visited him in Port Harcourt that the destruction visited on the state by the group was lamentable. The #ENDSARS protest in the state, according to him, was peaceful until IPOB hijacked it and took the law into their hands. “I don’t support criminality. IPOB killed six army officers, four policemen, burnt police stations and court buildings. “This is Rivers State. Go to Oyigbo and see the level of destruction. Now the State Government will be rebuilding those facilities,” the governor’s Special Assistant, Media, Kelvin Ebiri, quoted him as saying. Continuing, he said: “Those who don’t understand our actions are saying we are fighting the Igbo. How will they allow criminals to speak for them when there are intelligent Igbo people to speak for them? “If they (IPOB) are aggrieved, instead of channeling it to the right quarters, they go and kill innocent people and destroy public places.” The governor queried the country’s intelligence system and wondered why it failed to reveal how youths organised themselves for the protest without a leader. “Now look at what has happened. There was EndSARS protest across the country. Nobody knows how the youths were able to organise themselves without a leader. “Up until now, intelligence can’t even know how they did it and who’s behind them. Without good intelligence, how can Nigeria even defeat Boko Haram?” The governor asked the NGE to always hold public office holders accountable to the people. He said that in time past, the Nigerian press was a strong voice and conscience of the society, but wondered what has whittled down their powers. He said: “What I have seen of you is that you praise us and give us award because of relationship or friendship. “That’s not the way it should be. Challenge us, the people in authority and we will sit up to our responsibilities. We will have no choice but to perform and serve the people as it should be. “My support for you has to do with the fact that you are supposed to tell the truth about what is happening in Nigeria. “There was a time you were exposing the ills of society. If not for you, certain things would not be known. Assume your role, grow strong again and speak out.” Wike said that the country was in a difficult period in its history and NGE could not shy away from performing its duties without fear or favour. “If when I castigated the operations of SARS you added your voice, who knows what good that would have achieved,” he said. In his speech, the National President of NGE, Mustapha Isha, said Wike had remained consistent in his support to the guild. He said: “You are the only government that has sponsored our annual conference back to back. Even if we have a new leadership, that will not affect the friendship we share with you. “Anytime I come to Port Harcourt, there is always a new project ongoing. Flyovers are being constructed, existing roads are being expanded, and new roads being built. “This is your second term and you’re maintaining what you said; that you would work until the last day of your tenure. You have zeal and passion in handling issues of Rivers State, from covid-19 to issues of security. “Projects don’t hide; even your political opponents will see them. They may murmur, but they will use them. Your Excellency, keep up with your good job.”