I have never been scared the way I was last Thursday. I had reached out to my Editor earlier that day notifying him I was about heading for our burnt and looted office. He advised that I prepare “change” for the numerous ‘boys’ on the roads. With N2,150, I left home confident that I would get to the office with ease. I conjectured that Ikorodu Road would be a smooth route instead of Agege Motor Road where a shootout between a DPO and Mushin boys occurred the previous day. But I was wrong. Close to WAEC Bus Stop was a set of urchins who barricaded the deserted road extorting motorists. I offered N200 but ‘guys’ said no, insisting on N500 because my vehicle was an SUV. I paid and was waved on. At the notorious AP Bus Stop were the Fadeyi Boys. Here, a cow was slaughtered and fried Tuesday on the highway by the dreaded ‘guys’. I waved my Press ID and a branded facemask before them but ‘guys’ weren’t smiling. “You be SARS officer abi you be soldier? Abeg forget pressman and drop your N1,000.” I offered N200 but saw a dagger raised before me. Quickly, I gave the N1,000 and got cleared to move on. Less than 500 metres was Fadeyi Bus Stop. Another group was on duty. The members were also the dreaded Fadeyi boys. I needed not to negotiate their N500 toll. I was far away from the office. N150 certainly was a joker. I decided to return to the service lane so I could make a withdrawal from a Zenith Bank ATM at Onipanu Bus Stop. As I did, I was faced by a burnt Onipanu Police Station and urchins wielding iron bars and Police batons. Three approached me demanding cash. “I have only N150 on me. I have given out all that I had. Will you take the N150,” I asked them. “Are you stupid? Na we burn this station yesterday. If you don’t behave we go burn this your jeep too. Idiot,” he yelled at me, raising an iron bar with police colours. “Wetin make I do nahh? Abi you go follow me go ATM for that bank?” I pointed at the direction. “Ok. Bring the N150 first,” a baton-wielding ‘guy’ with heavily plastered mouth demanded. He took the N150 and handed it over to one of them before entering my vehicle. “What next?” I asked.  “To the ATM nahhh,” he replied. “No sir. I prefer leaving my vehicle with ya people.” He agreed. Throwing up and catching the baton, we headed to the nearby Zenith Bank. Unfortunately, all the points were out of service. “Wetin we go do now?” I asked him. “Let’s go to the FCMB in your car,” he suggested. I was scared. Very scared. Only two of us in my vehicle! Well, I complied. At the bank, the story was the same. I pleaded with him to let me go since I had made genuine efforts to give him the N1,000. “Oga, you know say my people send me. Dem no go believe say you no give me money. You can do transfer nahhhh,” he said. “I no dey do transfer as a matter of principle. Make we enter Watchtower look for people wey dey use POS,” I suggested. He agreed and I zoomed off with him. As we did, two things raced through my mind: Supposing the guy beat me into a coma with the baton? Supposing he snatches my vehicle? Supposing he seizes my ATM card and collects my PIN? Eventually, we got a POS agent. He got their N1k, thanked me and demanded I dropped him off where I encountered them. I did. I returned to Apata area having decided to go back home. Unfortunately, I ran into Apata Street boys who also demanded settlement. Initially, I did a little ‘gragra’ before parting with N200. While my gragra lasted, one of them stole my phone. But I was lucky. I realised in time and almost at the spot that the phone wasn’t where I kept it. I boldly walked up to the guy that collected money and demanded the phone. He beckoned on one of them and it landed on my palm. What a day!