Governor Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri of Adamawa State has felicitated with Muslims on the occasion of the Maulud celebration. The governor who congratulated Muslims across the world for the commemoration of the birth of Prophet Mohammed, said amid the crisis of the day, Muslims should pray for the nation. Fintiri in a statement by his Press Secretary, Mr. Humawashi Wonosikou, said the unfortunate #ENDSARS looting in Adamawa State Sunday to Monday this week was a great setback. While urging the people to show patriotism and commitment to the growth and development of the state, Fintiri said, “This time calls for fervent prayers for Allah to intervene towards the sustenance of the peace that Adamawa is noted for.” Fintiri issued his Eid-El-Maulud goodwill message Thursday morning just as the state police command equally released a press statement announcing the recovery of more properties looted by hoodlums who broke into government and private warehouses on Sunday and Monday this week in an #EndSARS violence that rocked the state capital, Yola. The police said 30 more tractors, 28 more hand tractors, and 107 more bags of fertilzer, among other things, had been recovered. The statement, signed by Police Public Relations Officer Suleiman Nguroje, was obtained by our correspondent Thursday morning, just about 24 hours after the state Police Commissioner, Olugbenga Adeyanju, told newsmen that 35 tractors, 28 hand tractors, 742 bags of fertilizer and some other items had been retrieved from #ENDSARS looters. Details of the Police statement of Thursday indicate that so far, the police have recovered a total of 65 tractors, 849 bags of fertilizers, among other items. The recovered tractors evidently belong to North-East Commodity Association (NECAS), a regional agricultural leasing and mechanisation intervention group which has its headquarters in Yola, and which raised the alarm Monday this week that 110 new tractors in its Yola mechanisation centre were rolled out of the centre by #ENDSARS looters.