 Where and when were you born? I was born to the family of Samson and Alice Fasuan of a Afao-Ekiti in Ifelodun/ Irepodun Local Government of Ekiti State on October 1, 1931. I am 89 years old. How did you know your birth date? In 1950, when I was in Form Five, which is equivalent to SS2 now and we were asked to go to the District Officers’ office in the barracks to sworn an affidavit about our age because the following year we are going to write the Senior Cambridge School Certificate, there was nothing like WAEC. In the form we filled we were asked to include our age. I just said September 6, 1931. In the long run, I found out that I missed it out by only 24 days. But, barely eight years ago when I saw my father’s diary where he wrote I was born on 0ctober 1st, 1931. So, I missed my date of birth by only 24 days. So, I had to change all my documents to reflect my real date of birth. How was growing up like? I grew up in a polygamous home and my mother was the most senior of the four wives. Not all of us went to school as you would expect. For each mother, one or two children would attend school, but we were a happy family. We were very close to each other, a Christian home both my parents being leaders of their own age groups both in church and the community. It was unfortunate that my father died when I was young . He was not in his prime , but he was a very effective leader in our society . Which schools did you attend? First of all, I attended a CMS school, not in my village, Afao, but in the next village, Are-Ekiti, at St. Andrew. It was a distance of about two kilometers from Afao. I later proceeded to best school around which is Christ School, Ado-Ekiti in 1946. It is very fortunate of me to have gone to that school. I wrote the Cambridge Senior School Certificate in 1951 at Ilesha Grammar School, the nearest examination centre to Ekiti Division then. Thereafter, I worked for few years in couples of organisations, including the civil service in the Western Region and few months in Nigeria Tribune. Then, I travelled overseas to Freetown, Sierra Leone in 1955 where I read Economics at the University College of Sierra Leone known as Fourah Bay College. Igraduated in 1959. Thereafter, I got employed in various departments both in private and public sector. I started with UAC as a Manager in 1960. I worked with regional government corporation in the Western Region (WNDC), Industrial, investment and credit corporation (IICC), the predecessor of the present Odua investment company where I rose to be the chief executive in 1975. In 1995, when Ondo State was created, I moved there as chief executive of parastatals and later on as permanent secretary. I worked for many years and retired at the statutory age of 55 which was the retirement age in those days. I started my private business, but all the time I know I belong to Ekiti. How do you feel sharing the same birth date with Nigeria and Ekiti ? It is fantastic and unbelievable. Without my knowing and I found out I share the same day and month with Nigeria and Ekiti and I thank God for it, it’s symbolic that’s why I said God wants to use me. Isn’t it symbolic? At 89, are you fulfilled? Yes, completely. There is nothing I want that God has not given me. My needs and wants are simple I don’t need much, I don’t want much and I thank God. Who am I to be alive at 89? Isn’t that something to be grateful and thankful for. I’m not in millions or billions but does it matter? I’m reasonably placed in life and thank God for that. What’s your secret of your longevity? I don’t know, but God just want to continue to use me, I don’t know beyond that and I thank the Almighty God for that. Looking back, do you have any regrets in life? It will be presumptive for any to say through out his life spans he has no regrets, but they are minor things in life that in the long run, you miscalculated. For example, there is a former president in this country whom I taught was an angel but later on, I discovered he had motives. Anything he does he has motives, he prefer to be exactly what he was not when he was in power, he wasn’t a moral paragon, but he wants people to be angels when he wasn’t one. Unfortunately, very early, I endorsed him personally, politically that this is the man for Nigerians and we should listen to him. Today, I say we should be very careful listening to him. We should be able to dissect between his motives and what he does. Who’s the person sir? Don’t worry Nigerians know him. Every time he pontificates, telling people what to do and what not to do. When he was there, he wasn’t an angel, we knew what he did. How will you compare the civil service you were into and the present civil service? Oh! There is no comparison. Civil service was straight forward, honest and committed. It was very rare to find any financial misdemeanor or whatever, but that is on the larger scale, but as far as my own people were concerned in those days, we were not treated fairly in the old ondo state, it was glaring in the promotion and placement of senior officers, but I knew that there could be a change and God use me for the change You occupied many political offices as member of the Constituent Assembly, federal commissioner, Board Chairman. How do you find yourself in politics? I wasn’t a politician per say, but I could be described as someone who love his origin, people and always seek advancement of the generality of his people and that took me to many political positions. One, in 1988/89, I was a member of the Constituent Assembly that drew up the Constitution that was later abandoned. Later, I served as a federal commissioner in the Revenue Mobilisation, Allocation and Fiscal Commission between1999-2004. Earlier on, in the Western Region and later on in Ondo State, I was a member of many blue cheap companies, including West Africa Portland Cement, Crittal-Hope Nigeria limited and host of companies in Lagos. I was also a member of Board of Directors of eight companies on behalf of the Western government and later on of Ondo State government. I also served as Chairman of the defunct Odua Textile Mill, Ado-Ekiti. So, with all these plethora of appointments, I did not derive personal gains at all. I was just struggling to uplift my people and that’s all. Could you recall your experience as a member of Constituent Assembly? It was there I saw party politics at its naked form. People were moving motion, making suggestions along political lines and not necessarily along national lines. I was a member of Yar’Adua group (the senior Yar’ Adua). We tried to fashion out a national policy for development. It was quite an experience. It exposed me to politics at both rudimentary and the apex level. Then, I also served as federal commissioner Revenue mobilisation allocation and fiscal commission as I’ve said earlier there I was lucky to play a notable role in the financial management of the country. I was there for five years. You were the arrowhead for the creation of Ekiti State. What really spurred you to  initiate the struggle? My experience in both the civil service and all political positions that I held indicated that Ekiti needed something much more determined than what was available in the old Ondo State. When I left service, I founded a group called Committee for the creation of Ekiti State. We were meeting in my living room twice a month and it was there we develop the concept of Ekiti State and we were lucky to have the endorsement and support of the Obas. The obas were led by Ewi of Ado-Ekiti, Oba Rufus Aladesanmi Adejugbe and I led the members. We just wanted a political identity of our own, not out of animosity, but out of self-development. We made contact all over the place. We have contact with Chief Afe Babalola, which helped us a lot substantially in ibadan, where he based in ibadan, the Ewi and my self led the delegation to Abuja to go and see the then President Sanni Abacha three times and we made conduct all over the place. We were six asking for states in the Western Region. In terms of material, Ekiti was the least qualified, but we have commitments and brain. We win the only slot in the west defeating Ijebu, Ibadan, Oduduwa, Oke-Ogun and Coastal States. And our state was declared mercifully on the 1st October 1996 and that was the end of an era and the beginning of a new one. Ekiti State had passed through six different administrators, both military and civilians. Do you think they work in line with the Philosophy of the founding fathers which you are one? Politicians are different from technocrats. The way they will look at things it would be different. The administrators pursued programmes that were of the interest of the state, but some inevitably looked out for their own interests. This is inevitable in society like ours. On the whole, many of them performed to our satisfaction. That is the situation and it’s inevitable in society like our own. The thing that bothers me is the low level of industrialisation. I’m not aware of any single industry since the state was created in 1996, I’m not necessarily talking about gigantic firms that are in Lagos, Ikeja, but agro-based industries. We have strong agricultural resources and we expect all government that come in Ekiti should be able to go in to agro-base industrial project to develop this state and get people employed. In view of this shortfall, what model of development would you recommend for Ekiti? In 1995, a year before the state was created, we produced a document, where we foresaw and speculated about what a new state would be in terms of development. That document is available to everybody in government. All these parties have their programmes and one cannot dictate for them at all. By my experience, I have seen that there are two different forces in the public service; politicians have their own program and civil servants have their own interests to protect. Sometime this two do not converge, they are contradictory. Every party that won an election should be able to execute their own programmes that is what the situation is. The loudest noise among some Yoruba leaders in the Southwest part of Nigeria now is a called for secession and creation of Oduduwa Republic. What is your take? I hope circumstances won’t lead us to that extreme measures, but if political and economic development continue to be negative, then, why not? I won’t call it secession I would call it arrangement for ethnic autonomy, secession might be too strong. If the present situation continues where some people are having it big and some people are having it too small, well, we can renegotiate the situation that occurred in 1914. Nigeria has celebrated her 60 years Independence anniversary. Is there much to celebrate reflecting on the past and the present situation? That we are still one is to be celebrated. Why not? That Nigeria is still one calls for celebration. Since 1952 when I started to view political situations trend in this country there has not been a single year when people people said Nigeria was a good place to live in. We are much more better than many countries. Leaders of many countries in our region not just in west Africa will just be laughing at us. What resources do we lack as a nation? Although this resources are not located evenly but it part of our geographical concept. But a number of countries could not have survive what we survived, we could only say the situation should improve otherwise the inevitable could happen. What is the inevitable? I will call it ethnic autonomy. That’s going my way and you also going your way. What your reflection on the growing level of insecurities, unemployment, social inequality, injustice and other challenges in the country? They will continue to be with us only the intensity should be reduced. Tell me a country that is 100 per cent safe of vices in Africa. See what is happening around us. Tell me a perfect political location in Africa where a country is 100 per cent perfect. Is it Sahel? Is it anywhere in west Africa, even in South Africa where the whites, the coloured and the black are co-administrators of the country. We are looking for a paradise that does not exist anywhere. 