Former Minority leader, Senator Biodun Olujimi, has denied allegation that Ekiti Governor Kayode Fayemi bribed the Ekiti Senatorial Tribunal and Appeal Court Judges at her behest to reclaim her stolen senatorial seat. She was reacting to allegation made by a group of All Progressives Congress (APC) members led by Senator Tony Adeniyi that Fayemi unilaterally changed the venue of the Appeal Court sitting and influenced the judges to subvert justice in her favour. Olujimi, who described the allegation as mischievous, slanderous and malicious, said she retrieved her stolen mandate not only because the election was marred with irregularities but also not conducted in substantial compliance with the provisions of the Electoral Acts The Appeal Court sitting in Kaduna had on November 6, 2019 upheld unanimous tribunal judgment sacking candidate of the APC, Prince Dayo Adeyeye and declaring the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) candidate Olujimi winner of the Ekiti South Senatorial election held on February 23. The Senator representing Ekiti South, in a statement in Ado-Ekiti, on Thursday, said the allegation that Fayemi negotiated her victory was not only an insult on her integrity but also a calculated attempt to smear the pedigree of the judges. She noted her victory was a triumph of truth over falsehood and reflection of the electorates’ wishes, claiming that Adeyeye lost unanimously at the Tribunal and Appeal Court due to the proactiveness of her lawyers. The statement reads: “My attention was drawn to a slanderous, mischievous and malicious write up by some lawyers and members of the APC imputing that judgement was purchased in my case at the Ekiti Senatorial Tribunal and Appeal. “My initial reaction was to say I am not a member of their party and to allow them steam in their sauces. On the second thoughts, i felt, they and their co-travellers might misconstrue silence to be admission of guilt. “Let me make it clear, that at no time before, during and after the trial have I met with nor discussed the case with the Governor Kayode Fayemi. “As a committed party person, I saw the allusion to the fact that Gov Fayemi negotiated the judiciary on my behalf as an insult, not only to my integrity, but that of the noble judges who i never met but were fearless in the discharge of justice despite the odds and of course, on the Governor whose preoccupation is only about his party. “I will not hold brief for anyone but state that my case against Prince Adeyeye was straight forward. It was on the issue of my stolen mandate bordering on voodoo votes that were added to give him victory. “It was an issue of sorting real ballots from ‘the rest’ and counting them in the presence of INEC officials, Police, DSS and lawyers of both parties. In fact, after the recounting of the real votes of 2 local governments, it was clear that the game was up “Rather than ask for forgiveness from God and look inwards in order to correct his ways, Prince Adeyeye is still reeling in the stupor of his loss to be able to make such spurious, unethical, uncouth defamatory statement against their Lordships! “He had assumed that being a member of the ruling party immuned him from the discovery of falsified votes.” The lawmaker, who advised Adeyeye and other members of the Adeniyi led APC group to withdraw their allegations, asked the National Judicial Commission to act swiftly to and ensure they stand trial for maligning the integrity of the judges. Olujimi denied speculations she was planning to dump PDP for the ruling APC, restating her uncompromising support for the foundational principles, values and ideological underpinnings of the PDP. “For the umpteenth time, I am not a member of the APC and will never seek refuge from my enemies. Dr Kayode Fayemi is the governor of Ekiti state and i will accord him his due respect as i have done for others before him, it doesn’t make me a member of his party but a properly raised adult,” she stressed.