THE Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) has lifted suspension placed on Union Dicon Salt Plc after the company submitted relevant financial statements to the market. The NSE had on September 1,  this year suspended Union Dicon Salt and five other companies after they failed consistently to meet extant listing rules that require quoted companies to submit their annual and quarterly financial statements within specified timelines. In a circular, the Exchange stated that Union Dicon Salt has submitted outstanding financial statements, paving the way for the lifting of suspension placed on its shares. The lifting of suspension took effect on Monday October 19, 2020. Listing and regulatory rules at the capital market require all quoted companies to submit their annual audited report and financial statement not later than 90 days after the end of the financial year. More than 85 per cent of quoted companies including all banks, insurers, major manufacturers, oil and gas companies and conglomerates use the Gregorian calendar year ending December 31 as their business year. Thus, the deadline for the submission was Monday, March 30, 2020.  However, with the disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, both the NSE and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) extended the deadline for submission of annual report and accounts by 60 days, till May 29, 2020. The NSE had stated that Union Dicon Salt and other companies were suspended after the expiration of the “grace” period and many notifications demanding the submission of the financial statements. The NSE had in July 2020 warned investors to be wary when dealing with shares of Union Dicon and 12 other companies after they failed to meet regulatory deadlines for the submission of their financial statements without any explanation. The 13 companies included Aso Savings and Loans Plc, Deap Capital Management & Trust Plc, DN Tyre & Rubber Plc, FTN Cocoa Processors Plc, Goldlink Insurance Plc, International Energy Insurance Plc, Medview Airline Plc, Resort Savings & Loans Plc, Staco Insurance Plc, Standard Alliance Insurance Plc, UNIC Diversified Holdings Plc, Union Dicon Salt Plc and Union Homes Savings and Loans Plc. “Investors are advised to trade with caution on the securities of these companies in the absence of up to date financial information on them,” the NSE stated.