 THE deafening noise from most commentators after Nigeria lost 1-0 to Algeria on Friday in Austria looked like we lost our pride. Indeed, the Algerians had not lost a game since they clinched the Africa Cup of Nations diadem, recording an 18-match unbeaten run, with the win over Nigeria their 19th consecutive victories. Of course, critics have a right to air their views but they must not lose sight of the essence of playing friendly games – to expose players to teams with similar tactical formations as their next opponents. One thing that this current NFF board has effectively done since its inception is to get the Super Eagles’ players busy during most of the FIFA-free windows by playing quality friendly games. In the past, such high profile games are played on the pages of newspapers with the players idling away in their European clubs. This lull affected how the Eagles played and adversely affected the country’s monthly FIFA rankings over the years. This columnist has watched the game between Algeria and Nigeria thrice since it was played to find out if Super Eagles were truly annihilated since the score-line didn’t suggest that either. It will interest many to know that 70 per cent of the squad that played the match against Algeria was playing together in a competitive game for the first time. The players exhibited a commendable composure, especially after conceding an early goal in the sixth minute. Also worthy of mention is the Eagles’ goalkeeper, Maduka Okoye, whose sharp reflexes saved blushes for his side. Today, Nigerians won’t flinch if Maduka is fielded ahead of Francis Uzoho. With his performance in the friendly, he has established his ability to keep Nigerians heart safe when he is between the goalpost for the Eagles. In fact, Uzoho would brace for the challenges ahead while outside bets such as Alampasu, Daniel Akpeyi et al would queue behind Maduka until he loses form – if he does anytime soon and barring unforeseen circumstances. The team’s tactician has quietly addressed the issue of fielding a reliable and consistent goalkeeper since Vincent Enyeama’s exit. I recall the debates among journalists before Nigeria’s first game against Argentina at the Russia 2018 World Cup over the goalkeeping area. Most people still blame Uzoho for the country’s slim loss to the Argentines. Now, Rohr can close his eyes and pick four goalkeepers to camp based on their current clubs. Rohr is a defensive coach, though many lovers of the Eagles feel that the team should play attacking football. I laugh most times at this trepid assertion because most of our players are not regulars in their respective European clubs. This season, you can count how many Nigerians are first-team players, with those of them who are playing for less fancied sides. In the Clemens Westerhof era which they easily refer to, almost all our players were regulars in big European clubs. They carry their club form to the national team making them a joy to watch as they whip the opposition like a hot knife passing through butter. It is important to stress here that international friendly matches are meant to expose the strengths and weaknesses in a team – with one objective to find suitable replacements – ahead of major competitions. Coaches use such games to discover new players to replace aging ones and those in the twilight of their national team careers. Having lost to Algeria, this columnist looked forward to Rohr’s selection based on what he observed as the team’s flaws. Rohr made five changes which further strengthened the team’s defence. I wasn’t surprised at the outcome of the match for a side that wasn’t playing with its key midfielders which include Wilfred Ndidi, Joe Aribo, and Oghenekaro Etebo. This is not to forget the effect of the retirement of Victor Moses and Mikel Obi from the Rohr’s side. Also, Ogenyi Onazi is presently recuperating while those angling for the position are rookies in the trade. Is anyone, therefore shocked that the Eagles were tentative in the two matches? One good thing Rohr’s list brought to the fore was the invitation extended to ex-Golden Eaglets beginning with goalkeeper Dele Alampasu (FK Ventspils, Latvia), Kenneth Omeruo (CD Leganes, Spain), Wilfred Ndidi (Leicester City, England), Samson Tijani (TSV Hartberg, Austria), Ahmed Musa (Al Nassr, Saudi Arabia), Samuel Chukwueze (Villarreal FC, Spain),),  Abdullahi Shehu (Omonia, Cyprus) and Ramon Azeez (Granada CF, Spain). The likes of Chidozie Awaziem (FC Boavista, Portugal), Moses Simon (FC Nantes, France) and Chidera Ejuke (CSKA Moscow, Russia) were part of the youth set-up in Nigeria but didn’t play in major tournaments. They’ve been absorbed into the national team following their consistencies in performance during games among other reasons. Today, we can point at Kevin Akpoguma (1899 Hoffenheim), Zaidu Sanusi (FC Porto, Portugal), Alex Iwobi (Everton FC, England) and Cyril Dessers (KRC Genk, Belgium) as Nigeria-born players not forgetting Joe Aribo (Rangers, Scotland) who dazzled in his first three matches in the midfield scoring goals. This columnist is comfortable with introducing foreign-based lads than scouting in the domestic front. Most of the ages being bandied by our domestic league players are false. This fraudulent trend jeopardises the team’s performance in subsequent matches as they grow older, become weary and eventually turn into tired legs. It is better to invest in truly younger players whose ages you can authenticate than fill the squad with grand old men in small bodies. Eagles’ defence has always been the team’s albatross in major competitions including during the Westerhof era. The Dutchman played many players outside of their positions to solidify the defence. Austin Eguavoen, Emeka Ezegwu, Ben Iroha et al who played in the defence for Westerhof had their roles changed intermittently depending on the opposition. It worked for the Dutchman because we lacked quality defenders in Europe then unlike now with the Nigerian-born lad. No coach would shut his eye on good players. If Westerhof was here now, he would have gone for these young lads than infest his team with old legs masquerading as boys. “We saw the confirmation for some of our players like in the goalkeeper (Okoye) position, like in the left-back (Sanusi) position, like also the new defender (Akpoguma) who is coming in choosing Nigeria instead of Germany, so he can play in the right side, he can play in the middle,” Rohr said to the Super Eagles Media Team. “We missed two more players because Kalu and Ekong were not here. I think the team is in a good shape, we worked well, we have more options now for our list.” Eagles in the two matches against Algeria and Tunisia lacked a leader in the mould of the late Stephen Keshi, Joseph Yobo, Austin Okocha, Sunday Oliseh, Nwankwo Kanu, Vincent Enyeama and lately John Mikel Obi whose performances on the field would have galvanised the players to give their best. the team unsurprisingly couldn’t string passes together for long period to dictate the pace of the game because midfielders such as Ndidi, Aribo, and Etebo were missing due to injuries. The lesson here for Rohr is to begin to think of a new midfield arrangement to fill this void when it happens next time. Alex Iwobi tried the few times he drifted into that position. He left the place yawning to join in the attack, leaving the midfield free for the opposition to exploit. This columnist won’t blame Iwobi since that isn’t his position. Such emergency assignments during matches don’t bring the best from players, especially when such roles were not practiced in training. Perhaps, if Victor Osimhen had played the two games, he could have conjured a goal or two to rescue the team. Osimhen’s presence in the game would have made the two countries to adopt a more defensive approach to check the Napoli FC of Italy striker from pouncing on mistakes to wreak havoc. Not a bad attempt by the Eagles in the two games. Most of the critics were benefactors in the business of influencing the selection process in the past, forgetting that nothing lasts forever. They may have lost grounds making it difficult to appreciate the gains which far outweighed the losses. This columnist would rather we make the mistakes during friendly matches than otherwise. My biggest joy is that we have a competitive team whose players’ average age is between 19 and 24 unlike in the past when it was 34, forget about the ages on the international passports of most of them in the past. Those Nigeria-born lads’ ages are verifiable not those with sworn affidavits. These players have a big future ahead of them. We wait. 