 Bills sponsored by Babajimi Benson in the House of Representatives for the delisting of electricity, railway and policing from the exclusive legislative list of the 1999 Constitution is an indication that the future may be brighter. One clog in the wheel of progress has been the constitutional allocation of almost all powers in the Federation to the central government. This, many have identified, has impeded moves by the states and private citizens to contribute meaningfully to national growth and development. The federal police system has failed to work, as local factors are not taken into cognisance in posting, funding and administration of the federal police. Electricity supply to businesses and households has failed to spur innovation, creativity and productivity. The worst hit are the small and micro-scale businesses. Artisans have to raise funds to generate their own electric power and the cost of purchase and maintenance of generating sets has risen astronomically. No underdeveloped country can break the yoke without overcoming the challenge of power supply. So far, all efforts at the federal level, including the massive allocation of funds to the sector under the Obasanjo administration, the launching of a new roadmap under the Jonathan government and current efforts have all failed to give Nigerians uninterrupted power supply. Unbundling the Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN), partial privatisation and legislative efforts have failed. This may be traced to the overbearing hold of the Federal Government in terms of regulating the sector. Many states have made efforts to get involved in generating power, but are stopped in their tracks when the generated kilowatts have to be fed into the common national grid and supplied to other states, depriving the investor of reaping dividends from its innovation. We agree with Benson, who is chairman of the House Committee on Defence, that items 13 and 14 of Part Two of the Second Schedule of the constitution should be amended now. State governments should have the power to invest in, regulate and legislate on power generation, transmission and distribution in their states. And, where deemed necessary, states could come together to do this. Railway has gained prominence under the Buhari administration, but as a behemoth in the hands of the Federal Government, it can only move slowly. No aspect of the transport sector should be left to the Federal Government only, except the airspace. Railway is so important in moving goods in the country, and it’s the only way of decongesting and preserving the roads. It is not something the Federal Government can handle alone. As long as it is solely bearing the load, local capital may not flow in the direction. For some time, the Federal Government, both the executive and legislative arms, has been scratching the surface on the need to decentralise the policing system. While they realise and often acknowledged that a plural society like Nigeria cannot be controlled by one man at the centre, they have done little to solve the problems arising from the system. The lip service to community policing has compounded the challenge of tackling the growing criminality in the society. Questions are still being asked about the funding, structure, control and power relationship between the layers. So far, the so-called community policing system is yet to take off. An effort by the governors and people of the South West to force a resolution through the Amotekun initiative has not really taken off, owing to resistance by the federal authorities. The Inspector-General of Police could not be blamed for his reluctance to let go as the constitution is a restraining factor. We hope the legislators realise that tinkering with the relevant sections that have hamstrung the federating units from improving on the security of lives and welfare of their people without amending section 162 of the Constitution would be a nullity. There can be no federalism without fiscal federalism. The Federal Government cannot hold on to more than 50 per cent of the federally collected revenue while the states do the job. It is time to take a more fundamental look at resource control in one form or another, bearing in mind that it is not a strange road to travel. In the First Republic, regions controlled their resources, supervised the harnessing and marketing and only paid 50 per cent to the Federal Government. The oil economy under the military changed everything as the Federal Government corralled all to it; only giving a pittance to the federating units. Under the constitution, again bequeathed by the military, all mineral resources are controlled by the Federal Government, it only declares as much as it wants and shares as deemed fit. This is no longer acceptable; it is not the way forward. There is no other federal state run along this pattern. Since 1999, the Constitution has been altered thrice, with none fundamental enough to ensure the country’s transformation. At a time that the youths are querying the mode of governance, it is time to revisit the foundation of the national political and economic malaise. Handouts from the Federal Government have made the states laid back. It is time to change the narrative, to free the Nigerian spirit or initiative, enterprise, creativity, and thus, development. The current system is holding the country back.  