 HEART-warming stories emanating from the recent widespread protests against police brutality and abuse of power, tagged #EndSARS, say a lot about generosity of spirit. The Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF), known as FSARS, set up to tackle armed robbery and kidnapping, had provoked public outrage that led to intense protests and calls for its disbandment. Two young amputees, who joined protesters despite their physical disabilities, and an elderly hawker struggling to make a living, had life-changing experiences that happened because other people cared. The viral picture of Jane Obiene, a one-legged young lady who marched with protesters in Abuja with the aid of crutches, had prompted a fundraising to buy her a prosthetic leg. “This is Jane. She’s been unemployed since 2013 partly because of her disability, she came out in the #EndSARS protests and we need to help,” said a tweet by Nonso Egemba, a medical professional known as Aproko Doctor, who launched the campaign to get her an artificial limb. The target to raise N1.5m in 30 days was surpassed within three hours. Nigerians, moved by Jane’s enthusiasm, responded with a generous spirit and donated more than N7.5m. This meant that other amputees could be helped. Charles Nnamani, an amputee who joined #EndSARS protesters at the National Stadium in Surulere, Lagos, had also attracted attention.  Aproko Doctor said he would also get a prosthetic leg from the public donations, and what is left of the fund would be used to help others. By participating in the protests, the two amputees demonstrated that they believed in the cause and supported it. Their involvement reflected not only their social consciousness but also the scale of public outrage over abuse of power by the police. It is significant that they had joined the protests based on their conviction and passion, and could not have foreseen the rewards. Marching with protesters despite the inconvenience of their physical disabilities was a selfless contribution towards social progress. Ultimately, it is a lesson in citizen responsibility.    The donations for the prosthetic legs are said to have come largely from youths. The #EndSARS protests were driven by youths. Indeed, Nigeria’s youths spoke loud and clear about the need for change, not only in the police force but also in the society. This is another lesson in citizen responsibility. It is a cause for concern that apart from Jane and Charles, who will get prosthetics, and other amputees expected to benefit from the fund, there are many other amputees who need prosthetics but cannot get them because of social shortcomings. This calls into question the country’s treatment of people with disabilities. It’s beautiful that the amputee protesters were noticed and helped. But it’s ugly that it took their participation in the protests to get noticed and helped. Interestingly, the protests and the protesters also helped an unnamed groundnut hawker who saw the anti- SARS gathering at the Lekki toll gate in Lagos as an opportunity to make good sales. The elderly woman struggling to make a living by selling groundnuts had an effect on the crowd. She possibly symbolised the more than 83 million Nigerians living below the national poverty line, according to figures released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) this year, in its 2019 Poverty and Inequality in Nigeria report. Nigeria’s population is about 206 million. There was a touching call for donations to help the poor woman, and more than N2m was raised. The objective was to end the woman’s hawking. It was another demonstration of empathy that showed generosity of spirit. The country needs more of such heart-warming stories that show Nigerians as empathetic. They are lessons particularly for the people in power who should do more to bring about “the greatest happiness of the greatest number.”