 African Alliance Insurance PLC has appointed new directors, following the nod of the National Insurance Commission. Its Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) is Joyce Ojemudia with effect from October 12. Mrs Ojemudia has over 20 years experience in insurance sales, business development, risk management, reinsurance and claims administration. She has inspired various businesses and departments to profitability with her inclusive leadership style, grit and a sense of direction. An alumnus of the Lagos Business School and University of Lagos, Mrs Ojemudia is a Fellow of the National Institute of Marketing of Nigeria. She is also an Associate of the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria and the Institute of Chartered Economists of Nigeria. She is the President of Professional Insurance Ladies Association (PILA). Other appointees were Macaulay Atasie, Emerging Markets Consultant and e-commerce solutions leader; Alhaji Abatcha Bulama, Financial analyst and banker; and Management Consultant, Dr Adiele Ekechukwu. With over two decades’ experience across the fintech space, Atasie has offered strategy development services to leading public and private sector organisations, including regulators and is the Strategy Advisor to at least two states. An alumnus of the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, he is the president of E-Payment Providers Association of Nigeria (EPPAN), an umbrella body of e-payments providers. Bulama has four decades of experience in banking, financial advisory, administrative services and accounting and sits on the boards of Ikeja Hotel PLC (owners of Sheraton, Lagos), Tourist Company of Nigeria (owners of Federal Palace Hotel, Lagos) and Capital Hotels PLC (owners of Abuja Sheraton). He is an alumnus of the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria and holds an honorary doctorate in Management from the Commonwealth University, Belize. Ekechukwu boasts almost four decades’ experience in consultancy and advisory, project management/training and capacity development. He is a former Head, Monitoring and Evaluation, European Union, Nigeria. Under him, major European Development Fund (EDF) projects, worth about 300 million euros, were completed. He is an alumnus of the University of Ibadan and the University of Manchester Institute of Science and Technology (UMIST), United Kindom. African Alliance Insurance PLC Board Chairman Dr Anthony Okocha said: “These appointments are clear strategic indication of the direction the Board is headed. In Joyce, we have a hands-on business development expert with excellent track record in driving business growth. “Her exploits in the industry as a shrewd marketer and exemplary manager of men and resources makes her fit for African Alliance at this point in our corporate life. “Macaulay, Adiele and Abatcha are men of distinction with unmatched experience in their various fields. They bring a rich repertoire of corporate exploits that will surely enrich our board. We are delighted to have them on board as we look forward to a successful tenure for all of them.” 