 Former Ebiede FC defender striker Noah Ojuola is one of Nigeria’s gifted youth players, who, ordinarily should have been shining like million stars in European football but for bad decisions and inconsistent agent. Currently playing for Fgura United in the Maltese first division, Ojuola is one of the leading stars of the country, though he believes he ought to be in a better league in Europe. In-fact, he kicked off his European exploit in Denmark from the youth team until he was denied a contract to join the senior team. Ojuola, 27, said: “My journey to Malta is a pathetic one but it has allowed me to grow from boy-to-man over the years. I started my career in Denmark with Midtjylland FC, where I joined their youth team and was doing well. I was nurtured and exposed to good facilities and matches and I was looking forward to get a contract and join the senior team.” Ojuola was already anticipating putting pen to paper with a top club like Midtjylland FC and making his dream come true. But that dream did not become a reality as his Denmark ambition was denied and he never got the much awaited contract. “It was a sad day I will never forget in my life. I cry each time I remember the treatment I got from the club. I was due for a contract, and we went for a UEFA Champions League play-off match in Switzerland against Young Boys FC. I did well in the match, and that had put me in a beautiful mood to extend my contract with the club. After the match, I was invited to the club office; I got there with enthusiasm of contract extension. I was full of smiles with expectation until I was told to quit the club. It was the biggest shock of my life. They told me I’m not getting any contract and will have to leave at the expiration of my existing contract.” Recalling the episode almost brought back tears in Ojuola’s eyes but he kept his composure to continue his narration. The former Nigeria U-23 player said that was not the end of his ordeal as he explained the incident that led him to settle for Maltese football.  To worsen the situation, he got into steps with selfish player agents who were not interested in his talent but rather how to sell him into slave contracts and collect their fees. “There was nobody to help me. The agents were nowhere to be found, so I carried my cross. I cried every day in Denmark, while they all turned their back at me. Rather than offer me a good deal, they approached me with slavery deals that could end my career as footballer. Despite the tough moment, I was careful enough not to be too desperate and ended up putting myself in a big mess.” Having tried all his best to return back to the major European leagues he moved to Maltese league, arriving at St George’s FC, his first Maltese club he would be playing for since arriving there in 2016. He has played for six other clubs in the southern European country. “I’ve not lose hope playing in Malta. I am confident and God has always been there for me. My game has been able to speak for me on the pitch and I am respected by my clubs and football fans in the country. I ddi not know God took me there, that he had a purpose for me there. I believe myself that drives me on.” “Playing in Malta is a blessing in disguise for me. Though it is not my final destination, football is enjoyable there and Maltese are passionate about their country even though it’s a small country. I am glad to bring my talent here for younger players to learn, and maybe that’s why I am here.” Ojuola is extremely talented with a style akin to Real Madrid full back Sergio Ramos. He enjoys overlapping into attack and has scored more goals than strikers in the league. “I have never doubted my talent, it’s a natural talent from God. The only thing I wanted to do in my life is to play football because God has made it from heaven for me. I played many roles on the pitch even right from Denmark, I played full back, right back, defensive or attacking midfielder, and I have succeeded everywhere but like I said I have not got to my destination.” Former head coach of the national U-23 team Samson Siasia invited Ojuola among 47 foreign based professionals to battle for places in the Dream Team squad of 2014. “I’ve earned national call-up while in Malta and still looking forward to playing for the senior national team before calling it quits in football. “While I was traveling out of Nigeria to Denmark, my hope was to set Denmark as a stepping stone and play for clubs like Real Madrid and  Arsenal but things went sour for me in an unexpected way.  I am hoping for something greater. I would like to leave Malta for a bigger club. Many people believe I don’t deserve to be where I am but I keep telling them that everything is in God’s hand.