 The position of a group of Northern leaders canvassing the restructuring of the Nigerian polity and economy is welcome. The group that came up under the aegis of Friends of Democracy, led by such notable Northern names as Alhaji Othman Tofa, Professor Jibrin Ibrahim and Dr. Usman Bugaje, has forwarded a memorandum to the National Assembly Committee on the Review of the 1999 Constitution, canvassing a return to the 12-state structure created by the Yakubu Gowon administration in 1967. The voices, coming from the North generally regarded as conservative and opposed to even the mention of the word “restructuring” has been hailed by leaders from other parts of the country. Leaders of socio-political groups such as Afenifere in the South West, the Ohanaeze Ndigbo from the East, the Pan Niger Delta Development Forum and Middle Belt Forum have generally welcomed the development. While not totally accepting details of the Northern group’s submission, especially the 12-state structure and introduction of resource control that accommodates the off-shore on-shore dichotomy, it is regarded as a progressive development. We agree that this provides a foundation for re-opening the debate. It is an indication that the government can no longer ignore the very loud call for a re-examination of the national question. The point must first be made that there is no perfect polity or system; that is why all constitutions make provision for amendment. Secondly, it is to be noted that human societies are dynamic and always developing. Hence, the need to continue conversations on the way forward, in view of evolution. Nigeria is much more so, given the history of the various societies forcibly brought together by colonial rule. The cacophony of voices on the way forward for Nigeria calls for a review of the terms of our relationship. At independence, we had a three-regional structure, by 1963 when we became a Republic; it was already a four-regional structure. But, the exigency of the civil war propelled General Yakubu Gowon to break the structure into 12, without any obvious logic, in 1967. Under the Murtala Muhammed administration, the Justice Irikefe panel was set up to consider the demand for more states. It came up with recommendation for creation of seven more states, which came into existence in 1976. The 19-state structure survived until 1987 when the Babangida regime created Delta and Akwa Ibiom states that increased the number to 21. In 1991, nine more were created, and additional six under the Abacha regime in 1996. The agitation has continued. In the midst of this, states carved out of the former regions/states are unwilling to give up their relative autonomy and return to the old structure. It is therefore difficult to understand why some Northern leaders are expecting the country to revert to the 12-state structure. Why not three, four, 19 or a retention of the existing 36? But it is a welcome development that all parts of the country have people who agree that the existing situation is unsustainable. A federal system that reduces the federating units to prefectures fed from the centre is unacceptable. It is sure to kill innovation and creativity. In the First Republic, the regions were engaged in healthy competition that spurred development. Resource control is very important in one form or the other. Whether it should be 100 per cent or 50 per cent as it was under the Independence Constitution of 1960 should be put to debate. We are conversant with conferences held in 1996, 2005 and 2014. The recommendations are still available and could be easily reviewed for fundamental restructuring of the country. We join Nigerian leaders from various parts of the country in calling on President Muhammadu Buhari to ensure that necessary machinery is set in motion to tinker with the existing structure of the federation. The tension in the land at the moment is largely because the centre has become a behemoth, with all power aggregated in one man. A proper devolution to the federating units would reduce the tension and ensure that cultural diversity is taken into consideration in deciding the priorities of the various parts of the country.