Lagos State government on Tuesday promised to support genuine local players in the Transportation sector to improve travel experiences among the residents. The Special Adviser to then Governor on Transportation, Mr. Oluwatoyin Fayinka, stated this at the unveiling of MyKab e-hailing cab App by MyKab App Technologies Limited at D’Remembrandt Hotel, Ikeja. Fayinka said the THEMES agenda of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s administration with special attention on Transportation and Traffic management is aimed at ensuring that Lagos residents have access to safe, affordable and reliable means of transportation. The governor’s aide, who lauded the creativity behind the MyKab App, said when fully on stream, the firm will provide jobs to the teeming youth population in the state. He said the cab-hailing app is the best thing to have happened to the youths, especially post COVID-19. According to him, many youths who have been worried about how to continue to fend for themselves, especially at a time many companies are downsizing, can be gainfully employed as cab drivers. “This (the operator) is first among other operators who have not only shown readiness but is seen to have complied with government regulation of the app driven sub-sector aimed at making the hiking ride safe for all classes of riders,” Fayinka said. The governor’s aide said the state government was happy to note that not only was the company concerned about its operations but also had a robust package for the welfare its drivers. The National President of Professional e-hailing Drivers and Private cab Owners Association (PEDPA), Idris Oluwaseun Shonuga, praised the firm for coming up with an app, which he said seeks to resolve the challenges and complaints of operators of e-hailing cars across the state. “This is the first time that e-hailing operators are being seen as professionals and not as jobless people who are just renting or using their cars for quick bucks,” Shonuga said. MyKab Chief Information Officer Fola Adebimpe Kolade describe the company as a fully indigenous app-sharing firm that is out to challenge the narrative of e-hailing and end illegal activities that are inimical to the real operators in the business. “On the MyKab App, the welfare of all our drivers is key. All of them are properly vetted before we sign them on, and we see them as partners. They are not undervalued. Rather, we train and ensure that they are psychologically ready to be on the road. “We are partnering several driving agencies to train our drivers, even as we have selected mechanic hubs in designated locations across the state where our drivers can repair their vehicles at cheaper rates,” Kolade said.