The police in Akwa Ibom State have arrested 10 persons suspected to have participated in the vandalization, looting and burning of public and private properties during the EndSARS protest in Uyo on Thursday. The police also recovered some items worth millions of naira, which were allegedly stolen by the hoodlums from supermarkets, electronic and phone shops. The state Commissioner of Police, Amiengheme Andrew, told a press conference that the feat was achieved with the assistance of the state government and men of the Nigerian Army and the Department of State Security (DSS). The CP listed the arrested suspects as Victor Udoeka Effiong, Miss Emediong Michael James, Imedimfon Ime James Isaac John Udoh and Sunday Michael James. Others are Wisdom Godswill Reuben, Ntiefon Ime Robert, Akaninyene, Abraham Livinus, Imoh Enobong Sunday and Isaac Sunday Udo. Items recovered include fourteen (14) deep freezers, Six (6) refrigerators, eight (8) flat screen televisions, four (4) water dispensers, sixteen (16) bags of rice, four (4) air conditioners, a printer, chairs, and other items. His words: ”As the lead agency in internal security, we have great respect for peaceful protests and we have acted professionally during its progression in the state. “However, yesterday (Thursday), some youths with evil intentions in the guise of #ENDSARS went about vandalising, looting and burning some government and private property, including the Akwa Ibom State Broadcasting Corporation (AKBC); Anchor Insurance, De Choice Shopping Mall, L.G showroom, and Access Bank Plc. “I have visited all the said places today with my Deputy Commissioner of Police, Operations, *DCP Auwal M. Mohammad*, and have made an on-the-spot assessment of damages done. ”I commend the state government’s timely intervention through the imposition of curfew as I today went round to ensure strict compliance, and we will continue to do so. ”I am, however, delighted to inform you that our quick deployment of Anti-Riot Policemen in conjunction with the efforts of sister security agencies such as the Army and DSS, and the efforts of the state government have restored normalcy in Uyo and the state in general.” CP Andrew said the State Police Command would stop at nothing in ensuring that all the looted items were recovered.