 Nigeria’s fiscal regime has been tainted by incalculable issues such as financial imprudence and malpractices by public institutions. These happen at federal and state levels. The unbridled borrowing culture at all levels of government, as well as the incapacity of the regulator to sanction defaulters contributes to the mess witnessed in the financial system. In a bid to reverse the trend and strengthen the capability of critical stakeholders to rise up to their responsibilities, the Fiscal Responsibility Commission (FRC), with support from Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC) and Oxfam Nigeria held a one-day retreat for FRC Sub-National personnel. The retreat held on Wednesday, September 30, 2020 in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, was attended by top government officials from the South-south as well as representatives from other states. The Retreat was aimed at identifying gaps and institutional challenges, among other issues, that have weakened the capacity of the Fiscal Responsibility Initiative at the sub-national levels to effectively execute their mandates and evolve robust agenda/recommendations for creating new and/or strengthening the various existing Fiscal Responsibility Commissions in order to effect beneficial changes in the fiscal management system. According to the organisers, the retreat became important because the Fiscal Responsibility Commission which was set up by the Fiscal Responsibility Act (FRA), 2007, Act No.31, enacted on July 30, 2007 by the National Assembly, is charged with the responsibility of promoting prudent and transparent fiscal management. However, the current mismanagement of public resources, incessant borrowings and consequently high debt profile, rising fiscal budget deficits, socio-economic decline and widening poverty and inequality are dividends of the extant fiscal responsibility framework and its prevailing deficits at the federal and state levels. These framework deficits, funding gaps and lack of institutional support, among other issues, have weakened the Fiscal Responsibility Commission at all levels, so much so that it could no longer carry out its mandate effectively. The Executive Director Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre, Auwal Ibrahim Musa (Rafsanjani) said: “We wish to chart a course on how to entrench accountability in the management of our public finance in Nigeria. We count it a commitment that your interest is in this; to have a framework, strategy and system which reduce the alleged losses through public institutions. “The Fiscal Responsibility Commission, in one way or the other, has a mandate to curb these menace that are not giving us the desired result in the acclaimed fight against corruption. “We want to educate ourselves on why we should support and strengthen the institution and also replicate same in our different states. This is the best way towards ensuring that our resources are prudently managed, especially now that we do not have all the resources. “It does not make any sense that we borrow frenziedly and also spend recklessly; it is not in our best interest as a country.” The Acting Chairman of the Fiscal Responsibility Commission, Victor Muruako, stated that concerns regarding the country’s continuing challenge in mobilising adequate revenue has made it imperative for a collaborative engagement of all stakeholders in fashioning out a way forward and proposing a better and more prudent management of the nation’s resources; with a view to addressing macro-economic stability. “The need for this interaction is very important given the present tough economic challenges orchestrated by COVID-19 pandemic. More than half of our national resources are expended at the States and local government levels. “This retreat would take us through: an overview of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2007, accountability and transparency within the Fiscal Sustainability Plan, strengthening states’ framework, identifying opportunities for collaborations, revenue generation in the post-COVID-19 economy and the operating surplus template. States will also be expected to update on their respective fiscal sustainability plans. “The retreat will also review the implementation of the FRA/FRL at the federal and state levels with a view to adopting strategies on how to improve the implementation of Fiscal Responsibility Law in their respective areas of jurisdiction. This is in a bid to completely draw a line from our ugly past. “It is instructive that prior to the advent of the FRA, 2007 that Nigeria’s fiscal climate was marked by the absence of clear fiscal rules, uncoordinated fiscal relations between the arms and tiers of government, reckless borrowing and debt overhang, poor saving culture, disregard for transparency and accountability and corrupt practices, resulting in chaotic and unhealthy economic outcomes. “In the past 11 years or more, the Commission has worked toward putting these reforms on the right footing. This has been taxing. Our experience as a reform-implementing agency has demonstrated that much more than strong laws are needed if we must effectively break with the past habit of financial profligacy,” he said. Eze Onyekpere, who presented a paper entitled “Fiscal Sustainability Plan: Accountability and Transparency and Debt Management,” challenged government at all levels to “open up their books” if they had nothing to hide. “We borrow without thinking of how to repay. We borrow based on political exigencies. We borrow to spend on non-bankable projects,” he said. He further stated that the sub-national Fiscal Sustainability Plan (FSP) is designed as an economic and public finance management tool with key objectives of improving accountability and transparency; increasing public revenue; rationalising public expenditure; improving public finance management and ensuring sustainable debt management, even as he added that publication of budgets, quarterly reports and other fiscal data will not only promote transparency in governance but also build public trust and understanding of key fiscal challenges. “The impression out there is that Nigeria is a rich country only burdened by its corrupt public officers, but this is far from the truth as the country is virtually dirty poor when compared with her peers. This public belief fuels the refusal to comply with Pay as You Earn (PAYE) tax regime, grumblings about increase in Value Added Tax (VAT), removal of petroleum subsidy and introduction of cost-reflective electricity tariff. Transparency will facilitate the drive to increase tax ratio of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP),” he stated. Experts say proper implementation of policy and institutional framework will strengthen fiscal prudence, transparency and accountability at the sub-national levels within the framework of the Financing for Development (F4D) project, it was, however, revealed that only 17 states in the country have a fiscal responsibility framework. Nevertheless, the amended fiscal responsibility legislative framework (SB 144: Fiscal Responsibility Commission (Est. etc.) Bill, 2019) which has been transmitted to the Finance Committee of the National Assembly since February, 2020, has the potential to address these fiscal policy and institutional gaps, drive revenue mobilisation and promote the prudent and transparent management of Nigeria’s resources, if enacted and effectively implemented. During the discourse, the following observations were highlighted: that local loans are collected both for capital and recurrent expenditures without particularly meeting the set requirements by the Fiscal Responsibility Act (FRA) 2007, some states have fashioned domestic fiscal responsibility laws that are not in line with the FRA 2007, some states have passed the law but are yet to establish their respective commissions while most of Nigeria’s budgets are on an IPSAS cash basis of public sector accounting as opposed to an accrual basis. Two recommendations were proposed for both FRC and the states. It  was recommended that the Fiscal Responsibility Commission should engage the National Economic Council and Nigeria Governors’ Forum on the need for the domestication of the FRA and the establishment of state commissions, engage the State Houses of Assembly on the relevance of a fiscal responsibility framework and advocate its domestication and effective implementation, embark on an intensive education and advocacy with relevant institutions (private and public sector financial institutions).  As regards states’ compliance with the provisions of the FRA on borrowing, there should be framework that mandates the states to domesticate the FRA as a prerequisite to accessing the funding from the government-supported SFTAS programme and enforcement mechanisms should be put in place to mandate states to publish state budget online annually and budget implementation performance report online quarterly in accordance with the FRA. For the states, it was recommended that there should be an urgent need to move from the International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) cash basis of budget accounting to an accrual basis for public sector finance reporting, to include the major provisions of the FRA in their state FRA; specifically, to include capital provisions dedicated to projects, which should be backed up with an unbiased report made public, periodic peer-review visits and trainings and sign on to some initiatives that promotes fiscal responsibility such as the Open Government Partnership (OGP) and establishment of registers for the disclosure of information on beneficial owners of all entities to improve transparency and accountability in governance. Dignitaries at the event were Chairman of the FRC- Victor Muruako; the representative of Rivers State Commissioner for Finance Mr. Adue Stephen; representative of Speaker, Bayelsa State House of Assembly Tare Porri; Enugu State Commissioner for Finance, Mrs Ada Kene-Uyanwune; Imo State Solicitor-General/Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Justice Uwasomba M. C; Cross River State Chairman FRC Moses Oko; Ebonyi State Chairman FRC Mrs. Oji-Uzor Ijeoma; Ekiti State Chairman FRC Mr. Ologuntoye A.O; Oyo State Chief State Counsel, Mr. Akintola Akibu; Executive Director, CISLAC- Auwal Musa Rafsanjani and the representative of the Country Director of Oxfam Nigeria Mr. Henry Ushie, among others. 