 Miffed by the orgy of violence, killings, looting and wanton destruction of properties experienced nationwide following the #EndSARS protest, the National Chamber of Commerce Mines and Industry (NACCIMA), has called for calmness and dialogue. The National President, Hajiya Saratu Iya-Aliyu, who made this call through a statement made available to The Nation said, the objective now should be to de-escalate the crisis being witnessed, which started with what is now known as the #EndSARS protests by the youth. She regretted the peaceful, legitimate protest has been hijacked by thugs and miscreants, resulting in attack on businesses, destruction of government properties, burning of police stations and correctional centres to free prisoners. “We are equally concerned about the deployment of military forces to confront the protesters which resulted in unsavoury consequences as witnessed especially at Lekki Toll area in Lagos recently. We are therefore calling for an end to the involvement of the military in current situation. The impact of the crisis and wanton destruction of property as being witnessed is clear for all to see. Billions have been lost in arson and looting going on.  “Business operations have also been seriously impacted. NACCIMA’s  efforts as a National Chamber, to help project our country as a favourable and  investment friendly destination to our Business partners abroad, and other foreign investors over the years is now suffering a  serious setback.  At a period we are still struggling with the negative impact of Covid-19 on our economy and working on economic recovery, we must not, by acts of commission or omission, aggravate our economic situation. “We must therefore step back and work together to end this violent crisis. Towards this end we are calling for frank dialogue between the leaders of the protesting youth and various arms of government at all levels including State and Federal governments to douse the tension. The prompt agreement on the initial five-point demands of the Protesting Youth including disbandment of SARS is a reflection of possibilities of what can be achieved through peaceful and meaning dialogue on the various contending issues.”