 IT was a day of celebration at the campus of the Federal University, Wukari (FUWUKARI), Taraba State, as the institution witnessed the inauguration of 30 projects executed with the assistance of the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund) in the last five years. Vice-Chancellor (VC) Prof. Abubakar Kundiri enumerated the achievements geared towards transforming the learning environment of the young institution into a world-class one. He said on his assumption of office five years ago, the institution was lagging behind in infrastructure and accreditation of courses. Today, however, he said 27 of its courses have now been fully accredited. He said he had also completed and inaugurated at least 30 projects worth billions of naira within his tenure, which  ends next February. The VC named some of the commissioned projects to include, buildings for all faculties; academic staff offices; academic staff quarters; student hostels; university library, information and communication centre; laboratories; convocation square; sports facilities; municipal facilities such as water, roads, electrical and other installations among  others. He said: “Through the support of TETFund, we have continued to transform the face of the university toward meeting our goals of developing into  a world-class university that is dedicated to meeting the human resource and research requirements of Nigeria and the global community.” Executive Secretary (ES), National Universities Commission (NUC) , Prof. Abubakar Rasheed described Kundiri as one of the best performing VCs in Nigeria. Rasheed assured that the university would get approval for the establishment of a faculty of medicine before the end of 2020, adding that a team of experts from the NUC would soon embark on an assessment visit to Wukari to evaluate facilities and the level of preparedness of the institution for the take-off of the programme. He  said: “The vice-chancellor has been on the neck of the NUC for approval to establish the faculty of medicine, and from the number of completed projects and facilities I have seen on the ground today, I am convinced that the request is genuine and on course.” The NUC ES was accompanied to the inauguration by his TETFund counterpart, Prof. Suleiman Bogoro; Chairman, Governing Council of the university, Laurence Ngbale; Chairman, House Committee on Tertiary Institutions, Alhaji Suleiman Goro, the Aku-Uka of Wukari, Dr Shekarau Angyu, among others.