 Justice Minister and Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami, was determined not to appear before the Justice Ayo Salami judicial commission of inquiry probing the activities of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). He had authored a petition to the president against the former chairman of the EFCC, Ibrahim Magu, suggesting that many unseemly practices had taken place in the agency. Before the panel wrapped up its inquiry, it issued a subpoena  against Mr Malami at the prompting of Mr Magu’s lawyers in order to help determine where the case should lean. Mr Magu had been suspended on the strength of that strongly-worded petition. However, citing constitutional reasons, the AGF declined the invitation, and insisted that his role as a supervisory officer precluded him from testifying. In composing the petition against Mr Magu, he had merely responded to the petitions forwarded to his office,  he explained.  What he didn’t explain was why Mr Magu was suspended based on unproven petitions. Was he implying that all it takes for a public official’s goose to  be cooked is for a petition to be written against him? Clearly, Mr Malami regarded his job done the moment he authored the petition to the president. Did his action help the president? It is hard to say. He was expected to have done his homework before advising the president to sanction the suspension of Mr Magu. The impression he gives is that no   homework was done. The judicial commission,  he hoped, would establish wrongdoing against the suspended chairman and the EFCC. But what if the suspended chairman was exculpated? Why, that would hardly matter.  They’ve got rid of him, and he is unlikely to be returned to office. The dilemma is, therefore, not for Mr Malami to concern himself with, nor for Mr Magu to pine over; it is for Justice Ayo Salami, a former president of the Court of Appeal, to groan over. Under Mr Malami, the country’s laws have fared very badly, and have been clumsily administered. It is unlikely to improve, whether it concerns removal of judges or their appointment, or even when it comes to ensuring the sanctity of the law or the fair and unprejudiced prosecution of certain categories of offenders. In light of Mr Malami’s brazen subterfuge, the country should simply brace up for more galling legal and judicial chicaneries. They will not get better, and justice in its purest form will seldom be served.