Pointers emerged recently indicating the preparedness of leaders of the Bauchi State chapter of the All Progressive Congress, APC, to regain back power in 2023 after suffering a devastating defeat in the hands of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP at the 2019 gubernatorial poll. Our Correspondent gathered that the former Speaker, House of Reps, Hon. Yakubu Dogara and the immediate past Governor of Bauchi State, Mohammed Abubakar who hitherto were political foes before the latter rejoined the All Progressive Congress, APC, have now reconciled towards the course. It seems the party’s stalwarts have recognized the need to Join forces and forge a common front to dislodge the ruling party (PDP) in the state come 2023. Recall Dogara was one of the APC’s influential members who dumped the party to rejoin the PDP in July 2018, although he officially announced his own defection on January 29, 2019, citing “undemocratic practices” in the party. Dogara had fallen out with the former governor of the state, Mohammed Abubakar, over the way he was running the affairs of the party(APC) in the state. However, the former Speaker rejoined the APC three months ago following irreconcilable differences with Governor Bala Mohammed of the PDP in Bauchi State. Our Correspondent gathered that his defection was “largely informed by local politics in Bauchi State ahead of the 2023 general elections” Nation reports Mohammed’s emergence was through a coalition of forces in 2019, spearheaded by Dogara. A political ally of Hon. Yakubu Dogara , Alh. Aminu Tukur, who spoke with newsmen at his residence in Bauchi, the capital on Saturday disclosed that a truce was finally brokered between the duo after a lingering rift. According to him, “The differences between us are gradually being resolved, our unity will definitely see the end of this PDP led administration which we contributed majorly to get on board only to be schemed out of affairs of things”. Narrating how the truce was brokered he said that, “having met themselves in Abuja and understood the need to be united, the former Governor called me and we exchanged pleasantries after which he told me that we should forget about the past and work together again for the good of the state”. Aminu Tukur further alleged that the present PDP led administration has reneged all the agreements reached preclude to the 2019 general elections saying, “since we are no longer needed in the party, we have to retrace our steps back to where we came from”. The former member of Bauchi State House of Assembly expressed optimism that come 2023 general election, the APC will regain control of the state considering the fact that the PDP has failed the people. Speaking on the internal crisis within the APC in Bauchi state, the one time Council Chairmen said that, “it is nothing serious here in Bauchi state, we don’t have two Secretariat, we don’t have two factional Chairmen in the state and none of the members of the State House of Assembly elected under the APC has defected, so, it is a minor issue that will soon be politically resolved.” This is as he boasted that the APC is still the party to beat in the state assuring that very soon, it will bring out a comprehensive road map to the 2023 general elections.