  The soothing balm applied to the pain of the moment, contrary to expectations, had only very little effect. Indeed, the authorities must have been shocked that the disbandment of the controversial Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), the subject of the current massive revolt, failed to dissuade the enraged youths into vacating the streets. The drivers of the protests merely shrugged off the gesture, exchanged gear and continued to throttle the engine with renewed gusto. So, rather than abate, the protests continued to spread from city to city. The protesters were adamant that the disbandment of SARS was just one out of their demands and until all the other demands were met, they would stay put on the streets. Their fresh five-point demand included: immediate release of all arrested protesters; justice for all the deceased victims of police brutality and setting up an independent body to oversee the investigation and prosecution of all reported police misconduct within a period of 10 years. The others were: carrying out psychological evaluation and retraining of all disbanded SARS operatives before they can be redeployed and that the government should increase police salary and adequately compensate them(police) for protecting the lives and property of citizens. All the demands, according to the presidential spokesman, Femi Adesina, had been accepted by the Presidential Panel on the Reform of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad. The protests, which started in Lagos and Abuja like a child’s play, became a melange of fun, the good, the bad and the ugly. In many places, the protesters were seen bond in a show of camaraderie. They did and shared things in common. The protests, in one breath, were fun-packed and tinged in melodramatics. In Edo, for example, the protesters on Saturday converted the Benin- Lagos Expressway into a kitchen. They first blocked the otherwise busy highway to traffic from the old toll gate to Uselu Market in Benin-City, a distance of about 10 kilometres, subjecting the motley of road users into a harrowing experience. They then set a kitchen by the highway, cooked and took their time to savour jollof rice. Some bags of rice were said to have been donated to them by an unnamed supporter of the protest. Again, at Lekki toll gate in Lagos, one of the most intense and highly organised points of the protest, the protesters devised ingenious ways of keeping the anti-police brutality campaign alive. One of such innovations was the provision of a solar-powered inverter, into which many charging points were mounted, for the protesters to charge their mobile phones. Many groups and individuals were also supplying the carnival-like Lekki venue foodstuffs, medical items and other essential daily needs to keep the campaigners on the streets. However, the protests recorded sour points that tended to vitiate the altruistic underpinning of the whole campaign. The genuine campaigners were along the line infiltrated by egregious elements who turned the otherwise peaceful protest into violence, resulting in fatalities. In some cases, it was overzealous protesters whose reckless actions most times caused avoidable deaths. In Alimosho area of Lagos, for example, a protester recklessly driving her Toyota 4Runner SUV last Thursday ran into a tricycle, killing two of its occupants. Another protester was killed in Akure, Ondo State capital, the following day when a Toyota Camry car rammed into protesters at a point near the Governor’s Office. Hoodlums also attacked protesters in Benin, Edo State capital, killing two of them. One of the Edo victims was shot, while the other was macheted. Their assailants, who wore red tee-shirts, were said to have accused the protesters of blocking their source of income by preventing them from daily issuance of tickets to commercial drivers. In Ogbomoso, Oyo State, four protesters were lost to the campaign. The first victim, Isiaka Jimoh, was gunned down in the course of the protest. The three others were killed when angry youths nimbled into the palace of the ancient town’s monarch, the Soun, Oba Jimoh Oyewumi Ajagungbade, and vandalised it over his alleged attitude to Jimoh’s killing. Oyo State governor, Seyi Makinde, however, took a commendable step in timely compensating families of the slain protesters and the Soun. In Osun State, hoodlums also attacked the convoy of the governor, Mr Adegboyega Oyetola, in Osogbo, the state capital, on Saturday while fraternising with the protesters. The governor, who was ferried into safety, later spoke in a broadcast, saying the attack on his convoy was a failed attempt on his life by political thugs and hoodlums. Moments later, scores of hoodlums, chanting ‘#EndSARS! #EndSARS!’, also invaded the popular shopping mall in the city centre and looted the whole place blind. Many residents were robbed and injured in Ogolonto, Ikorodu area of Lagos between Saturday evening and Sunday afternoon when hoodlums hijacked the peaceful protest in the area. The assailants, suspected to be cultists, unleashed terror on innocent people, vandalising and looting shops in the area. A lot of bystanders were robbed of valuables like phones, handbags and others. Some trapped motorists had their vehicles’ windscreens and side mirrors smashed. Again, as the protests entered the second week, motorists and commuters were left to groan in agony as gridlocks ground cities as a result of the campaign. It was a near-total lockdown in Lagos on Monday as major routes and highways were blocked to traffic. Motorists and commuters spent hours in gridlocks that overtook the entire city. Many exasperated workers had to return home.  In Abuja, the protesters barricaded the Abuja city gate and the busy airport road to traffic, causing road users untold agony. On Saturday and Monday, hoodlums also swooped on the protesters in the federal capital and dispossessed stranded   residents their valuables, including cash, phones, laptops and others. Some of the motorists who were trapped had their vehicles vandalised. Soldiers had been deployed in the streets to avert the escalation of the the orgy of violence and looting. These sour points have tended to have blighted what had started as a peaceful and well organised anti-police brutality revolt. And it is quite unfortunate. In the light of these realities, let the Federal Government heed the wise counsel of the legal icon, Aare Afe Babalola, that it (government) should as soon as possible dialogue with the protesting youths and meet their demands to prevent the protests from degenerating. The protesters too have made their points. They have waged a good psychological warfare. They should not overdo things. Let them, therefore, vacate the streets and submit to dialogue with the authorities to allow their demands to be addressed. After all, even issues underlining the most virulent wars still have to be sorted out in a ‘jaw jaw’ session, after guns and other lethal weapons must have spewed deaths and destructions.