Foods and manufacturing giant BUA Group, yesterday, announced the signing of an agreement with FAVA of Italy for the supply and installation of a pasta processing plant with a total capacity of 720 tons per day of Pasta across five lines. When completed next year, the plant will see BUA become the second largest pasta producer in Nigeria. The new plant will also complement BUA Group’s 720tpd pasta processing plant in Port Harcourt, bringing its total installed capacity to 1,440tons per day across 10 lines by the end of next year. BUA Group Chairman Abdul Samad Rabiu said: “We are excited to work with FAVA for the supply and installation of our newest 720tons/day pasta processing plant in Port Harcourt, Nigeria to complement the five lines of the same capacity we have in the same location. “This project will drive our total installed capacity for pasta processing to 1,440 tons per day by 2021 to meet increasing demand as well as take advantage of our prime location in Port Harcourt to efficiently supply key markets in Nigeria as well as the immediate regional markets.”  Rabiu said as the region’s population continues to rise, BUA Group’s continued investments across the agriculture and foods processing value chain will be crucial in helping to enhance food security in Nigeria and the region. “Through this and other projects in the pipeline, we expect to become the leading player in the Flour Milling/Pasta Processing industry within a very short period,” Rabiu added. Chairman of FAVA, Luigi Fava, thanked BUA Group for the opportunity to work on this project, saying that FAVA will bring its unrivalled expertise and wealth of experience to bear in delivering one of the best and most advanced pasta processing plants in the world. He commended BUA’s commitment to excellence and said FAVA was committed to delivering this project on schedule. BUA Group is one of the leading players in the foods, manufacturing, mining and infrastructure space in Africa. The Group’s investments in agriculture value chain is spread across various industries from flour/pasta to sugar plantations & refining, rice, edible oils and providing technical assistance.