The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) has joined the International Organisation of Securities Commission (IOSCO) to celebrate World Investor Week (WIW), which started on October 5. It will end to Friday. World Investor Week is a week-long global campaign organised by IOSCO to raise awareness on the importance of investor education and protection, and highlight the various initiatives of securities regulators in these two critical areas. The NSE yesterday stated that it would embark on a fully virtual campaign to further promote smart investing and amplify the opportunities for retail investor participation in Nigeria’s capital market. Activities lined up include an awareness programme across its social media platforms on NSE’s retail-focused products and services; trivia contests to reward winners with investments in available products; and virtual engagements with leading financial experts to drive the conversation about financial literacy. These activities will culminate in a virtual Ring the Bell for Financial Literacy. Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Mr. Oscar Onyema said financial inclusion is a priority for stakeholders in the capital market. He said the NSE makes it a primary concern to contribute towards the achievement of Nigeria’s National Financial Inclusion Strategy of reducing the proportion of adult Nigerians that are ûnancially excluded to 20 per cent in the year “We recognise that the ability to make well-informed financial decisions plays an important part in the ability of individuals to properly manage their financial affair s, a factor that can have either a negative or positive ripple effect on the economy. ‘’At the NSE, we are, therefore, excited to once again be a part of WIW 2020 and remain committed to promoting financial literacy in the capital market,” Onyema said. According to him, as a member of IOSCO, the Exchange continues to implement and support initiatives that encourage the wider investing public to develop sustainable investment habits. He noted that efforts being made by the NSE included the introduction of innovative products and services, execution of product-specific trainings and workshops, commemoration of Global Money Week, excursions to the Exchange under the X-Tours programme, and the yearly national NSE Essay Competition.