Ondo State Government on Monday evening raised the alarm over alleged plot by Deputy Governor, Agboola Ajayi, to stage an attack on himself in the Owo hometown of Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu. It said the plot was quickly abolished and the campaign to Owo cancelled after relevant agencies were informed. Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Donald Ojogo, who spoke at a briefing said Agboola hatched to plan for it to be seen that it was carried out by supporters of APC as he visited Owo as part of his campaign tour. Ojogo said the plot was a dangerous dimension to Nigeria’s democracy. He said motive was to create crisis and play the ignoble role of an underdog and victim in order to attract public sympathy. The Commissioner said: “He planned attack against himself at Owo. It failed because the government made the sinister. We find it curious and alarming. Contest must be made friendly. We are appealing to the security agencies to upp their game as we get close to the election. “Agboola arranged hoodlums to shoot at his convoy while at Ijebu Owo, the strong base of Akeredolu. It was orchestrated to coincide with the visit of the INEC and IGP to the state. “The Ondo State Government has implicit confidence in the capacity of the security agencies to unravel the circumstances leading to skirmishes in the last three weeks. “We are, however, persuaded to believe that most of such attacks are organized by ‘the loud victims’ to demonize the Government and paint a savoury atmosphere of insecurity as we approach the October 10 election. “The State Government wishes to reiterate its sustained call on the security agencies to heighten their surveillance and stem every untoward move in the direction of a peaceful election. Providing adequate security for Ajayi as he tours Owo today, can only be a potent effort to forestall a dangerous slide into perfidy.” But Agboola said he suspended his campaign to Owo because intelligent reports revealed that Akeredolu perfected plots to lay siege of attacks on the supporters and members of his party who wanted to attend the rally. Agboola stated the ZLP woman leader in Owo and many supporters were physically attacked since Sunday and their properties destroyed. Speaking through the Director General of his campaign organisation, Dr Kola Ademujimi, Agboola said he has conducted a clinical campaign across the state without any blemish. “We therefore, urge our teeming supporters in Owo Local Government Area to continue with the house to house campaign and mobilisation.”