 IT was sometime in 1970, eight clear years before I became a bonafide member of this world we like describing as sinful when it decides to go against us. Gen. Yakubu Jack Gowon, who was then our military ruler, did an x-ray of the role of the elite and concluded: “We use our positions to embezzle. We parade ourselves as saints and prophets although we are unfit for their abode. In all honesty, our country has never had it so bad.” I came across this quote in Kole Omotoso’s ‘Just Before Dawn’, a blend of facts and fiction about major events in our nation’s annals. I came across so many more things in the book that have made me feel the more things change in Nigeria the more they remain the same. Gowon’s quote, though not made for today, still sadly rings true for today. Are our elite still not using their position to embezzle, yet parading themselves as saints, when they are unfit for their abode? He said we had never had it so bad, if only he knew what was coming years after. A pamphlet referred to in the book, which was issued by forces opposed to the Murtala Mohammed government, complained about the Lagos traffic mess, the port congestion, inflation and fuel crisis. Forty-five years after, have we stopped the Lagos traffic mess, the port congestion, inflation, and fuel crisis? The pamphleteers wrote: “Nigeria is bleeding and will soon bleed to death.” Have we stopped bleeding forty-five years later? In another scenario, Omotoso wrote: “The glaring difference between an armed seventeen-year-old who is executed for threatening a lady and stealing five naira from her, and a state governor who had used his position freely to acquire millions of naira worth of property was obvious to the people, yet ignored by those in power.” Has the situation changed? Not really, because people in positions of authority still convert commonwealth to theirs and brazenly acquire estates. There are public office holders in Nigeria whose country homes are as big as some villages. Their garages brim with vehicles running into tens; and many are gathering dust. They own homes in Asokoro, Banana Island, Maitama, Ikoyi, GRA Port Harcourt, GRA Enugu and in cities across the world, especially London, New York and Paris — many of them empty and only occupied for few days throughout the year. Between the 70s and now, we have had military and civilian administrations, yet many of the challenges of then are still with us, with some variations, of course. An unnamed military administrator quoted in the book spoke about the fact that education was no longer the only way of making money. He advised the people to look for “who can help you for a fee”. He also spoke about the fact that graduates could not even get employed as teachers. Has the situation really changed? Thousands of graduates roam the streets every day looking for jobs, man-know-man still dictates the pace and we are yet to rid our society of the bribery-to-receive-favour syndrome. The hunger for power by the political class was given generous space in ‘Just Before Dawn’. Personal interests were sold as general interests; sadly, the situation has remained the same. Politicians jump ship to retain their control of the public tills, yet sing at every given opportunity that they are in power to serve and are making sacrifices for the betterment of our nation. Sacrifice my foot! The North/South dichotomy was real in the years captured by Omotoso. The situation has not changed, we still look at the country from this prism. The book recalled the efforts of the Sardauna of Sokoto, the late Ahmadu Bello, to scout for young Northerners who would be sent to England to acquire western education to curb the aggressive competition from the South, which he felt was dominating jobs, positions and businesses being handed over to locals. Evidence of this mistrust abounds in the book. Till this day, the North still does not trust the South and the South does not trust the North. And in the North, the Middle Belt is dissociating itself from what is known as core North. In the South, the Yoruba, the Igbo and the Niger Delta are also doing their own battles. As it was in the beginning so it is now. Abuse of power was another major challenge captured in the book. One such instance was a premier who caused one million pounds of the region’s money to be deposited in his private bank to save it from dying. The money was handed over to the region by the colonial masters who were then a few years away from granting us independence. Our leaders still use their positions for personal benefits and they are not going to stop anytime soon. The years may have gone by, but the issues that dogged the past are still very much dictating our fortunes and misfortunes. There was also complaint about grave economic predicament and uncertainty, inept and corrupt leadership, among others. That was in 1984. But my question is: Do these still sound true of our reality? Our economy is on its way to recession and people in positions of authority have been found to be inept and corrupt. My final take: One other aspect of our lives that has not changed is our policing system. For over one week now, our major cities have been occupied by youths seeking the real end of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) and genuine reform of the police. We are tired of audio reform that lends credence to the fact that the more things change the more they remain the same. President Muhammadu Buhari and the police leadership have promised to go beyond rhetoric. We need to see this and not just hear it. We have been fooled for too long. Until our today takes a radical change from our yesterday, change cannot be said to have happened. The challenges of years past, such as epileptic power supply, sick economy, division and others should have no place in our today. 