 Barcelona provided “the best response” to the “turmoil” off the pitch by convincingly beating Juventus in the UEFA Champions League, says midfielder Sergi Roberto. It has been a whirlwind few days for the Spanish giants as they lost 3-1 to Real Madrid in El Clasico on Saturday before the club’s president Josep Maria Bartomeu announced his resignation on Tuesday. However, they made it two wins from two in this season’s Champions League group stage with goals from Ousmane Dembele and Lionel Messi seeing off a poor Juventus side, who had Merih Demiral sent off late on for picking up a second yellow card. “The best response we could give to the turmoil at the club is a display like this,” said Roberto. “Everybody has been talking a lot but the team simply want to win games.” Dembele opened the scoring when his deflected shot looped over Wojciech Szczesny in the Juventus goal. Messi then wrapped up the win in stoppage time when he coolly converted a penalty after substitute Ansu Fati had been fouled. When the draw for the group stage had been made, this fixture caught the eye for the possibility of a Cristiano Ronaldo and Messi reunion for the first time in two years. However, Ronaldo was left out of the squad after having another test for Covid-19 earlier this week, with the Portugal international self-isolating since a positive test on 13 October. Without him, Juventus lacked bite and although Alvaro Morata had the ball in the back of the net on three occasions, each one was ruled out by the Video Assistant Referee. Victory means Barcelona are top of Group G, three points ahead of Juventus and Dynamo Kyiv. Marcus Rashford came off the bench to score a clinical hat-trick as Manchester United continued their recent momentum by taking apart RB Leipzig in the Champions League. England international Rashford came on just after the hour mark and netted three goals in 16 minutes, first running clear to calmly slot in, then smashing in a terrific second, before drilling home a third in stoppage time. Teenage forward Mason Greenwood scored his first goal in the competition, latching onto Paul Pogba’s defence-splitting pass before drilling a precise, low finish into the far corner. Greenwood produced another thumping effort straight at Peter Gulasci, while the visiting goalkeeper also kept out Anthony Martial’s poked effort. But when Martial was tripped in the box with three minutes to go, he converted the penalty to score his first goal of the season. Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s side backed up their excellent win at Paris St-Germain in their opening game by collecting another impressive three points to extend their unbeaten run to four games. United’s backline had a comfortable night, David de Gea keeping out efforts from Christopher Nkunku and Ibrahima Konate. In the Group H’s other game, last year’s runners-up Paris St-Germain picked up their first points with a 2-0 win at Istanbul Basaksehir. Jadon Sancho and Erling Haaland scored late goals to give Borussia Dortmund a much-needed win in their Champions League group. Dortmund were beaten 3-1 by Lazio last week and were poor for large parts of the game against a diligent Zenit side led brilliantly by former Liverpool defender Dejan Lovren. But Sancho, 20, kept his cool to convert after Thorgan Hazard was fouled at the far post. And Haaland then ran on to make it two. Lazio drew 1-1 with Club Bruges to leave Group F tight after two games. (BBCSports/Goal.Com) 