 THE Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) during its World Mental Health Day announced that Nigeria, a country of about 200 million people, has only 350 psychiatrists that specialise in mental health. This announcement, shocking as it is, should not come to any good observer of the Nigerian health sector as a surprise. Since independence, there seems to have been no enduring education and health plan that would structure ways to integrate the health needs of the ballooning population. It must be noted that education is supposed to be the foundation of knowledge and awareness. The educational structure seems structurally deficient because more often than not, children, who by the way are the ones who grow to study all the courses, have no idea about certain professions. The medical field is one of the widest fields of study due to the complexities of the human system. However, in Nigeria, the only idea of Medicine and Surgery is often limited to general practice and obstetrician and gynaecology. Other aspects of medicine like psychiatry, dental care and optometry are not really as popular as they ought to be. In many instances, the students study them as last resort, if they fail to get a spot in the general medicine department. Again, mental health is not generally seen as an issue and even when mild mental issues escalate to full blown psychiatric cases, the fatalistic beliefs come into play. The belief that mental illness is a result of a curse from some gods or spiritual attacks attracts a lot of stigma. Even some of those who have patients tend to hide them to avoid public ridicule. In some cases, out of ignorance, some parents even assume that their children or wards might ‘contract’ metal illness if they study psychiatry. In a country known for the people’s faith in religion, most cases of mental health issues are taken to all three religious houses. We recall the recent discovery of fake rehabilitation centres run by some imams and alfas across the Norhern states. Pastors often pretend to cure mental illnesses through ‘deliverance sessions’. Herbal homes equally posture as healers without any professional qualifications. The World Health Organisation (WHO) last year announced that its  research showed that about 30 per cent of Nigerians need psychiatric evaluation. Most people saw the figure as very conservative and far from the truth. The country continues to deal with high suicide rates and a good percentage of such incidents can be traced to depression that, if well-treated, might just save lives. We condemn the fact that a paltry 350 persons are qualified to treat mental issues in Nigeria. The only solution is massive advocacy and awareness creation in ways that all branches of medicine can be exposed to the children early so they can then make informed choices. Training individuals is not an easy job, so the country must begin to rethink the education system so that very early in life, children understand what sectors of medicine they can study. For a country of more than 200 million people, 350 psychiatrists that major in mental health is merely a disaster to the whole population. There are various degrees of mental health issues and such a paltry number cannot perform any miracle. There must be some efforts at creating an awareness about what causes, and how to manage things like mild to acute depression. Counselling is a huge plus for awareness creation. The citizens must be taught  the realities about  mental health, and made to see it as one of the illnesses that affect humans and not some curses from the gods and or  man. There must be more attention paid to education and health given that those two hold the ace to development. Today, we know the statistics of mental health practitioners in the country, but all other aspects of human medicine must be holistically handled to get the citizens to be healthy in mind and body for optimal productivity. We hope that the health sector can be treated with the urgency it demands because, as the saying goes, health is wealth.