 Hoodlums on Friday burgled and looted valuable goods in a popular shopping mall, Memories Superstores located in the timber town of Sapele, Sapele council area of Delta. It happened after a 48-hour curfew imposed by Governor Ifeanyi Okowa to stem further loss of lives and destruction of properties across the state. The hoodlums, in their number, vandalised the mall, located along Ajogodo Road and carted away goods worth millions. But for arrival of operatives of the Nigerian Army, 19 Battalion, Koko, more damage would have been recorded. The miscreants were said to have stationed spies some distance away from the mall to alert them of unwanted companies, as such they fled with some valuables on sighting the soldiers. A witness, Akporotu Onome, told newsmen the hoodlums stormed the mall and forced their way in and thereafter began to loot goods inside the store. “People were carting away goods and others were destroying things until soldiers came in,” he stated. The Nation gathered the hoodlums, hiding under the guise of ENDSARS protesters, had continued their protest on Thursday night in spite of the curfew by mounting bonfires across Sapele town.  There were also reported gunshots around the ever-busy Olympia area along Oleh and Okpe Roads where the hoodlums also gathered. Chairman of Sapele Local Government Area, Hon Eugene Inoaghan, appealed to the youths in the area to exercise caution, while government works on their demands. “We know how pained the youths are and I can assure you all that the government is doing everything to meet your demands, just give the government some time,” he stated, in chat with newsmen after the incident. The Senior Special Assistant to Governor Okowa on Security matters, Omasan Mabiaku, who also spoke at the scene said: “It is disheartening that genuine protests by youths have now been hijacked by hoodlums. “This is not a protest; genuine protesters don’t break into people’s property and loot: what they did is stealing and we condemn this in total. “We are appealing to youths, parents and guardian to talk to their people”.