Head of the Tech Experience Centre, Chidalu Ekeh, said the Centre will boost indigenous manpower in technology as well as serve as a training ground for youths on latest technology. She added that it would also reduce the decision-making cycle for Chief Executive Officers (CEOs), Chief Information Officers (CIOs), Chief Technology Officers (CTOs), as well as other technology consumers. Speaking on the sidelines of the inauguration of the centre by Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ali Pantami and others  on Independence Day,  she said the centre will serve as a springboard for young techpreneurs. She  said: “We are creating a path in this country where state-of-the-art technology will be accessible to CEOs, CIOs, CTOs and others technology consumers, so that they can make prompt decisions without leaving the country. “What we have on board is a tech genius area where our customers will be able to take advantage of the partnerships that we have with the various OEMs on board. The Centre will afford young Nigerians the opportunity to receive world-class training on the latest technology.” The Managing Director (Sales), TD Africa, Mrs. Gozy Ijogun, said the centre was designed to add value to the technology space in Nigeria in particular and Africa. Ijogun said: “I am sure everyone is wondering what TD Africa is doing with the Tech Experience Centre. At  TD Africa, we consider ourselves value added distributors. We are not just here to buy and sell. We add value to the economy. For that reason, we came up with the Tech Experience Centre so that Africans can experience technology the way it should be in this part of the world. No other distributor can do this. TD Africa is here to add value to the Information and Communication Technology (ICT) ecosystem.” The Centre, housed within an impressive eight-floor edifice, will play host to tech giants, such as Cisco, Microsoft, Dell Technologies, HP, Schneider Electric, Zinox, Philips, Samsung, Apple and Bosch, among others. The structure also houses a cutting-edge gaming arena, lifestyle and smart home area, café, training centre, conference rooms and expansive office spaces, among others.  Olakunle Oloruntimehin, GM West Africa, Cisco expressed delight with the concept behind the Tech Experience Centre, adding that it would be a great opportunity to offer latest technologies to consumers under the same roof with other tech giants. “It is a good opportunity to collaborate with TD Africa and other OEMs under one roof. Technology is being democratised and it is important that people come together to take this outcome forward. Cisco is excited not only to partner with TD Africa but also to work with other OEMs under one space to make this work,” Oloruntimehin said. Country Manager (Nigeria), Philips, Chioma Iwuchukwu-Nweke also expressed excitement with the expected launch of the project. She revealed that Philips would delight tech customers at the Centre with latest health-driven home appliances. Nweke said: “This is a dramatisation of the phrase ‘think global, act local.’ This is what TD Africa is doing with the Tech Experience Centre, by bringing lots of multinationals in the technology space in one place so that customers will experience latest technology. Before now, people always take technology to be something they have to travel outside the country to experience. We are sure that the Centre is going to change this narrative, especially at this time when the thought of travelling is a little bit scary for a lot of people. For us at Philips, customers should expect total innovative home appliances.” On her part, Marketing Communication Manager, Schneider Electric, Vivian Mike-Eze, commended the vision behind the initiative. She urged tech consumers to be ready for an immersive experience with smart home concepts at the Tech Experience Centre. “There has not been such a centre that gathers all the tech giants together in one place here in Nigeria. So, TD Africa has really set a precedent. I believe that people visiting the Tech Experience Centre expect to experience technology. In Nigeria, there is really a market for advanced technology that has been ignored for too long.This vision by TD Africa to bring the latest technology and get customers to experience it live is a fantastic opportunity to tap into. Because of the Centre, customers do not need to travel to the US or UK to actually see latest technology. “Schneider Electric promises customers home automation, using the smart phone concept, when they walk into the Tech Experience Centre. This involves having the ability to control the temperature and ambience in their homes, with just a voice command. It is easy to talk about it, but there is no better idea than experiencing it by testing the controls and seeing it live.” In addition, Microsoft Senior Partner, Specialist-Modern Work, Josh Adekeye, appreciated TD Africa, noting that the Centre will promote customer immersive experience. He promised that Microsoft would always support the Centre, which will reduce the burden for Microsoft to fly its customers to other countries to see its latest technological rollouts. Adekeye said: “For us at Microsoft, when we heard about the Tech Experience Centre, we knew that it was something we needed to participate in. Before now, we usually fly our customers to Microsoft Technology Centre either in Dubai or in the US.  However, when this opportunity came, we indicated interest and supported TD Africa to achieve it. We will always support the Centre. The beauty of technology is in seeing it. What Microsoft brings to the table is customer immersive experience. It means the customer will see the technology, feel the impact and make their decision easily and quickly.” , Managing Director, Samsung (Nigeria), Caden Chiyeon Yu hailed TD Africa for galvanising other tech giants to bring the Tech Experience Centre to life, adding that the Centre will afford Samsung a great opportunity to expose customers to its latest offerings in Internet of Things (IOT), Artificial Intelligence (AI) and other innovations shaping the global tech ecosystem. Meanwhile, Country Manager (Nigeria), Bosch, Ayokunmi Solesi, described the Centre as a huge landmark on the African continent, adding that Bosch was ready to bring modern kitchen appliances to the delight of customers at the Centre. Solesi said: “This is live experience. When you see big OEMs like Bosch, Schneider Electric, Samsung, Cisco, Microsoft, among others coming under a platform, you will realise that something great is about to be born. This is a huge landmark, not just in Nigeria, but also in Africa. For us at Bosch, this is a very commendable initiative,” Solesi said. The Tech Experience Centre is an ambitious project, the first of its kind in Africa, to house global technology giants under one roof, with the aim of making latest and cutting-edge technology easily accessible to Nigerians and other nationals. Experts and economic watchers have hailed the expected launch of the centre as a major development that will shore up Nigeria’s relevance in the global technology space, while also boosting the nation’s economy. 