 THE industry market ranks 72nd in the world based on the industry’s gross premium income for 2017, up two points from 74th  the previous year, it has shown. The National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) said the report was based on a United Kingdom (U.K.)-based AXCO Market Ranking. According to the report on NAICOM’s Statistical Market, 2018, this is remarkable considering that the economy had just come out of recession. The report stated that the market in 2018 grew at about 14.46 percent, recording a gross premium income of about N426 billion as against the production of N372 billion made in 2017. The report further read: “Non-life sector accounted for about 57.58 per cent, while the Life sector in its steady upward trajectory, accounted for 42.42 per cent of the gross premium of the period. The re growth of the life sector is largely driven by the surge in premiums from the annuity business which, though not entirely novel, has newfound momentum in recent times due to increasing demand for it by newly-retired persons, and the attraction of new regulations. “The percentage contribution of the Life sector gross premium grew from a 38.20 percent in 2016, to the present position in 2018. The claims experience of the sector was similarly robust, growing 35.26 per cent from N186 billion recorded in 2017 to N252 billion in 2018. This positive development can be attributed to a growing awareness among policyholders and industry confidence with regards claims settlement. Non-Life claims constituted about 47.77 percent of the gross claims recorded during the period, a 13point drop from the 61.11 percent recorded in 2017. “The Life segment on the other hand improved by about 12 points to peak at N 252 billion, making up about 52.23 per cent of the gross claims reported in the same period. A similar experience was reported in the case of paid or actual claims settlement during the year. This is a direct reflection of the consistent regulatory measures of the Commission to raise public and consumer awareness on matters of claims and claims settlement, a major determinant to industry confidence.” It further stated that industry asset size continued its steady growth since 2014 (from about N828billion) to peak at aboutN1.3 trillion in 2018, a 54 per cent growth. The industry total assets grew at 13 per cent to N1.3 trillion in 2018 from a N1.1 trillion in 2017. “This growth rate is commendable despite its still relatively small size to other financial sub sectors in the economy. It is expected that recapitalisation and other regulatory measures will spur further, much needed growth of the industry in coming years. The Commission, in exercise of its regulatory powers, intervened in some ailing insurance companies to ensure financial stability of the institutions.’’ Meanwhile, the Nigeria Insurers Association (NIA) said the industry grew at a faster pace than the economy in 2019, even though penetration remain very Low. NIA Director-General, Mrs Yetunde Ilori said the stakeholders continued to intensify effort at improving penetration and creating the needed awareness toward achieving financial inclusion of those that are at the bottom of the pyramid. She noted that National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), in its efforts to ensure soundness and profitability of insurance business, also continued to release circulars; guidelines and market conduct to support the nature, scale and complexity of the businesses conducted by underwriters. “To build the capacity of insurance companies, the industry regulator introduced the new risk-based capitalisation template known as the Tier Based Minimum Solvency CapitaL (TBMSC), which was later suspended as its requirements might affect growth in the sector since it permits fragmentation. “The State Insurance Provider (SIP) policy was also introduced to serve as agency of the State Government to be licensed by NAICOM as a means of diversifying insurance distribution in the country.  This policy was later cancelled due to its attendant controversy. Notwithstanding the moderate performance of the sector, the industry is yet to convert the huge opportunities that abounds. We do hope that in the coming years, the industry will strive to improve capital in order to increase its retention,” she added.