Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Friday said his heart bleeds and he was pained after seeing the level of destruction that took place in the state on Wednesday and Thursday as a result of the #EndSARS protests. Sanwo-Olu was addressing the press after a tour of the areas where massive destruction that took place in the state. The governor visited 27 locations which includes: Palace of the Oba of Lagos, Ajeromi Ifelodun LG, FRSC, VIO office Ojodu Berger, BRT park at Berger, Lekki toll gate, bus terminals, police stations, historic government buildings, City Hall, private malls, offices, banks ATM etc. The governor said he was traumatized by it all and was in tears when he saw the level of destruction especially the oldest court in Nigeria at Igbosere, adding that “we have not seen this level of destruction before in the state.” According to him, “this is not the Lagos that was handed over to me in May 2019, how did we get here, this was supposed to be a peaceful protest.” Moving forward, Sanwo-Olu said, “we need to continue to talk to ourselves,” he urged citizens who are still using the social media to instigate and incite citizens to desist. “Everywhere i went today, people say they want peace, we all want peace, we can not continue to lose our population and our monuments and infrastructure.” The governor, who also visited some hospitals where some of the injured at Tuesday Lekki toll gate were taken care of, said most of them have been discharged while the few remaining are responding to treatment. Sanwo-Olu said the government would pick up the bills for the treatment of the injured. He also said, the terms of reference of the judicial panel of inquiry and restitution has been expanded to include investigation of all issues that happened at Lekki Toll gate on Tuesday and it will be sitting at the Lagos Court of Arbitration at Lekki from Monday, urging all who have a case to petition the panel. The governor has also eased the 24hours curfew from Sunday as movements will be allowed from 8am to 6pm. Sanwo-Olu said the state has commenced the process of clearing the roads of all blockages, adding that LAWMA was out already and will work through out the night. Stressing that “Lagos needs to heal and the healing has started,” Sanwo-Olu said.