REGGAE/DANCEHALL act, Jethro Chinweotito Abara aka Jethro Lion, has inked a recording deal with Evoke Musik, an entertainment company based in the US with its subsidiary in Lagos Nigeria. Information revealed that the deal was facilitated by rap head and member of the defunct Trybesmen, Freestyle Tha Shogun who is now referred to as Mista Styles. Jethro Lion made the landmark achievement as the first music act to be signed on the label after several years in the industry. “It has been a challenging journey for me. Faced with the financial challenges of promoting my music mainstream as an independent artist, I struggled with the competition but we give thanks to Jah for signing on to Evoke Musik. “I had produced some unreleased music for him back in the day and despite being the CEO of Evoke Musik, “Mista Styles” is like a big brother to me. He sabi me reach the house and we definitely go way back. I can’t thank him enough for this privilege of being signed to Evoke Musik.”  Speaking during the unveiling of the artiste recently in Lagos, the CEO of the platform, Mfon Essien, stated that Evoke Musik would redefine the entertainment landscape in Nigeria through the release of authentic and relatable music with lyrical depth, that has a feel-good effect on the listener and portrays a positive image of Nigeria, home and abroad. He said: “An embodiment of creativity, Jethro Lion is not one to chase trends for the sake of clout. Nigerians should get ready, as a new storm is about to blow across the entertainment industry. Devoted and true to his art form, that storm is “Jethro Lion,” a multi-talented triple-threat, Singer/Songwriter, Music Producer, and Performer.” Jethro Lion, a native of Ezinihitte in Mbaise LGA of Imo State, is an alumnus of the Muson School of Music who picks Bob Marley, Majek Fashek, Capleton, Sizzla, Busy Signal, Mista Styles, 2face Idibia, Blackface, and Faze as some of his musical influences. Jethro Lion also announced that he’s open to collaborations with all music acts but looks forward to a collaboration with Simi, Wizkid, Patoranking, Burna Boy, and Davido. Currently working on a new single, “Hustle Must Pay”, Jethro Lion says he’s set to claim his place in the industry.