 THE Federal Government, Southeast governors and other stakeholders have hailed Enugu State Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi for his administration’s support towards the completion of the administrative block of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) Academy at Udi in Udi Local Government Area of the state. The FRSC Academy, a centre of excellence for skills acquisition in road traffic administration and safety management in Africa, was relocated from its temporary site in Jos, Plateau State, to Udi in 2014. This followed the approval of Enugu State government for the FRSC to acquire 35 hectares of land in the state and its commitment to providing the road network to the facility as well as a befitting administrative block. Speaking during inauguration of the administrative block, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr. Boss Mustapha, expressed the appreciation of the Federal Government to “the Enugu State government, under the amiable leadership of His Excellency, the Executive Governor of Enugu State, Lawrence Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi for the show of uncommon support for the Corps”. Mustapha told Ugwuanyi that “your goodwill and that of the good people of Enugu State is highly acknowledged by the Federal Government”. Represented by the Director of PRS, Jamiu Adelabu Abdukalreem, the SGF also expressed confidence that the establishment of the FRSC Academy in Enugu State will continue to aid the realiwation of the corps vision. He added that the purposeful partnership between the Federal Government and the Enugu State government “should, therefore, be emulated by other state governments, organisations and individuals to enhance the country’s road safety management efforts”. The Corps Marshal of FRSC, Dr. Boboye Oyeyemi, thanked Ugwuanyi for what his administration was doing for the Corps. “I am short of words to convey the gratitude of the Corps to the government and good people of Enugu State,” he added. Governors of Imo, Ebonyi, Anambra and Abia states lauded Ugwuanyi’s efforts, support and magnanimity towards the realisation of the FRSC Academy. Inaugurating the project, Ugwuanyi acknowledged the sacrifice by the royal fathers and people of the three communities in Udi Local Government Area, who jointly own the parcel of the land where the academy is located. The governor also lauded the giant strides of the FRSC leadership.   