The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, and former President Olusegun Obasanjo on Monday held talks on the protests by youths against police brutality. The meeting was held at the monarch’s palace in Ile-Ife, Osun State. According to a statement by the Ooni’s media aide, Moses Olafare, Oba Ogunwusi described the #EndSARS struggle as a clear message to the government, particularly about their ability to get things done in a coordinated manner. He urged the youths to allow the government to fully attend to their yearnings. The monarch said: “As a youth leader myself, I am proud that we all have communicated our ideas and it is heartwarming that we have been heard. “Dear youths, it is time to retreat particularly to prevent those with ulterior motives from hijacking the peaceful message of peace. “The whole world is aware of our peaceful conduct and we must not let some bad elements tarnish this enviable integrity. “Once again, I wish to urge our youths to stop the protest for now and give peace a chance. This would disallow the government from using force.” Oba Ogunwusi condemned the attack on the convoy of Governor Adegboyega Oyetola’s convoy by thugs at the venue of an #EndSARS protest in Osogbo, the state capital. He commended the governor for his maturity in handling the sensitive issue, despite  the  provocation. Obasanjo described the #EndSARS protest as a product of an extensive agitation that must be addressed by the government. Obasanjo described the #EndSARS protest as a product of an extensive agitation that must be addressed by the government. He said: “Over 65 per cent of our population is under the age of 35, who look up to the best in life, who struggle for education, some of them didn’t even get educated while those who are educated get frustrated because of lack of opportunities. We must realize that the lid on the boiling steam would have to be removed. “But, I believe that there are windows of opportunity, which the government can explore to show that it cares about the people, especially the welfare of the youths as the father of the country, particularly as the father of the youths. Obasanjo added: “Fortunately by experience, the president has children and he knows how youths behave. “I believe that the opportunities can still be taken to let the youths know that he as a father understands their plight and his government understands their plight and he is ready to make life better for them.”