 A Canada-based Nigerian, Dayo Alabi, has launched a dance challenge to foster unity and happiness among blacks in Vancouver, Canada. In a recent chat, Alabi said the challenge was launched to commemorate the annual World Mental Health Awareness for this year. She said the dance challenge was to bring back happiness and lost hope in the communities ravaged by the coronavirus pandemic. Dayo, the creator of Black In Vancouver (BIV) Dance Challenge, said that this was in response to the need to uplift the spirit of blacks in the community at a time of the pandemic through the arts. In a six-minute video titled, “Master KG – Jerusalema, BIV Dance Challenge,” dancers clad in African fabric were seen performing various choreographed steps. According to Dayo, the dance challenge was further inspired by the hit song Jerusalema by Master KG, in which one of Nigeria’s most globally accepted artists, Burna Boy, was also featured in its remix. She said: “BIV Dance Challenge was created during the pandemic, an idea borne out of happiness; to bring the black community together; to encourage wellness and bring hope.  “The project has changed the whole tune of the sadness in COVID-19 and just brought a different kind of emotion to everyone. “Part of it has to do with mental – people were in a dark place, down and sad. “Many things were happening, so many lives were lost, and also because of the situation of ‘Black Lives Matter’ movement and all of which spiraled during the pandemic as well. “This was like a light shining on everyone because creating the dance challenge video just brought so much light into the sadness that was already in place. It just changed everything for the community,” She reiterated that the BIV Dance Challenge had created the first-ever ‘Jerusalema’ dance challenge in Canada. “It is a dance challenge sweeping the world, uplifting spirits, bringing communities together, giving a sense of belonging, while creating much-needed happiness in the face of a pandemic. “So, the dance challenge is committed to showcasing black excellence, promoting the expertise and talents in the dance, music, and arts in our (black) community, while celebrating and preserving our culture,” she said. She also added that making the video had brought together members of the community, many of whom volunteered their skills, time, and resources.