 The COVID-19 pandemic has brought various socio-economic hardships to the global community. Indeed, the pandemic hit the world like a thunderbolt, and with it came too many social and economic readjustments and requirements. Therapeutic, diagnostic and personal protective equipment and so many other hospital equipment like Intensive Care Units suddenly became the priority products, as countries battle to prevent the spread and reduce mortality rates. For a Third World country like Nigeria, the effects of the pandemic would take years, if not decades, to mitigate. The economic impact of the virus seems very deep in a country that was the poverty capital of the world even before the pandemic. Therefore, as countries across the globe battle to get their battered economies back to normalcy, Nigeria must, through well thought-out financial policies try to salvage her battered economy too, given the enormity of the economic problems engendered by the pandemic. Many countries have been battling with the importation of most of the needed medical and scientific needs and some global bodies, countries and even individuals have been contributing money and materials to other countries, to save lives. Unfortunately, some individuals have capitalised on the demands during this COVID-19 period to commit certain financial crimes that have very huge impact on the country’s economy. The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) therefore directed banks in the country to update alert protocols in their anti-money laundering/combating the financing of terrorism monitoring tools. This is in response to the series of financial crimes stemming from people intent on using COVID-19 as camouflage for a cocktail of financial and cybercrimes, all amounting to economic sabotage of an already bleeding economy. There have been reports of capital flight under the pretense that those involved were mandated to buy medical equipment for COVID-19. Many foreign organisations like the EU, World Bank and even individuals donated money to many NGOs in Nigeria that did everything but use the funds sent to them to work for the patients in whose name the monies were sent. Some people reportedly apply for forex from banks, pretending to be importers of medical materials but end up misusing the funds. Some other people merely request for financial aids for patients’s welfare but end up laundering the money. Reports equally show that a lot of other financial crimes has been traced to individuals and corporate bodies who embezzle, redistribute or misapply funds meant for COVID-19 medical materials. While we commend the CBN for instructing commercial banks in the country to be more circumspect about certain irregular transactions at this time, we hasten to add that the apex bank must also look inwards to discover where its supervisory duties failed in tracking certain illegal financial transactions. Since the global rise in money laundering, terrorism and other cybercrimes, most countries’ apex banks have been using technology to track money transfers and other financial transactions. We find it curious that Nigerian banks that ought to be digitally compliant, with 21st century banking technology, might have been caught unawares by the smart alecs using COVID-19  as a conduit for financial crimes. Besides COVID-19 related alibi, we suspect that other sectors of the economy might equally be suffering the same financial losses, owing to the systemic lapses. For a country seeking foreign direct investments and other economic development processes, the CBN directive might send a red flag, not because the apex bank is wrong but because it might be seen as slightly inefficient for giving the directive at all. We therefore advise the apex bank to be very alert in carrying out its supervisory functions in the banks, which though might never be totally fool-proof, but at least can help greatly in reducing the level of cybercrimes. With the huge economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, adding loss of funds due to the pandemic might just be too heavy on an economy that is dependent on oil, with its price volatility.