 The Minister of Power, Mr. Goddy Jedy-Agba yesterday inaugurated the first board of the Nigerian Electricity Management Services Agency (NEMSA) after seven years of its establishment. He also inaugurated the newly constituted management team of the agency. Speaking at the ceremony in Abuja, he said the appointment was a part time job for three years and renewable upon expiration. He hoped that the board would not fail in assisting President Muhammadu Buhari to achieve its goal of supplying electricity to Nigerians. The minister insisted that the board and management team of the agency must work in tandem with the extant law to achieve the goal of the agency. He warned the board to avoid conflicting with the management of NEMSA. In view of the importance of the sector to the economy, he advised any of the members that could not cope with the rules of engagement to throw in the towel. “It is not a joke that he is insisting that we get-started because the power sector is the kick-starter of industrial revolution in our country. This is a milestone event and I expect us to take it with all seriousness,” Jedy-Agba said. Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Power, Mr. Chineaka Ohaa said that it is statutory to have a board in place for proper guidance in line with the policy of President Buhari’s government,.  He described NEMSA as the police of the power sector for the enforcement of technical standards and for the distribution of power in the country. Managing Director, Nigerian Electricity Management Services Agency (NEMSA), Engr. Peter Ewesor described the inauguration as a moment of joy for the agency. “Today is a moment of joy for this agency. We want to start by saying we thank the President for graciously granting that this board be constituted. We want to thank the minister of State for making this to happen because we have worked as an agency for almost seven years before this historic event of today,” Ewesor said. Ewesor, who is the Chief Electrical Inspector of the Federation said the agency now has a full house expressing optimistic that the board members could lead the management team to achieve any task anywhere. 