IN continuation of our review, today’s discussion will focus on Frequently Asked Questions by using some practical case scenarios to guide corporate and individual taxpayers on the impact of the Act on their businesses. Frequently Asked Questions Review of key changes –  Changes to Payment of dividend tax continued  S.19(1 & 2) (19) Question The old Act stipulates payment of excess dividend tax where dividend has been paid out of  profits on which no tax is payable, what is the further clarification made in the Finance Act to prevent double taxation on such dividend? Answer The Act stipulates that dividend tax payment should be restricted to dividend paid from the current year profit. Dividend paid from the retained earnings already subjected to tax or profits exempted from tax shall be exempted from such tax. (20)  Question Stated below are the extracts from the financial statements of AYB  Limited for the year 2019: N Retained Earnings brought              forward                       4,000,000 Profit for the year     2,000,000 Dividend declared for 2019              (paid in 2020)            3,500,000 Required: Compute the excess dividend payable by the company. Answer The excess dividend payable shall be 30% x N2,000,000  =  N600,000. (Refer to solution to Q.19) It should be noted that the dividend balance of N1.5million must have been paid from the retained earnings which must have been previously subjected to tax. (21) Question What is the condition for exemption from tax dividend and rental income received by a Real Estate Investment Company on behalf of its shareholders? Answer Minimum of 75 per cent of the dividend and rental income must be distributed to the shareholders within 12 months of earning those income. Changes to treatment of Capital Allowance (Small Company) (22)  Question What is the treatment of capital allowance on the assets acquired by a small company? Answer All capital allowances on the assets acquired during the period within which it was a small company shall be deemed to have been claimed during that period.  However,  yearly allowance shall be claimable on the tax written down value of the assets when the business becomes medium-sized or large company. (23)  Question What is the pioneer status granted to the companies in agricultural business in the new Act? Answer Any company in Agricultural business shall be given an initial tax free period of five years which may subject to satisfactory performance of agricultural production, be renewed for an additional maximum period of three years. (24) Question Where a company exempted from tax has suffered withholding tax deduction from payment due to it, what is the remedial action to relief the company of the tax? Answer Such company may request for the refund of the withholding tax suffered. S.23(1o) (25) Question The old Act stipulates the allowable deductions to be those wholly, reasonably, exclusively and necessarily incurred in the generation of the income or profit, what further clarification has the Finance Act added to this rule? Answer The Act disallow expenses that relate to profit/income exempted from Tax from the deductible expenses. (26) Question The old Act did not specify the amount of foreign connected person’s loan interest allowed as deductible expenses from the company’s profits/income, what is the new provision in the Finance Act 2019? Answer The Finance Act 2019 restricts the deductible amount to maximum of 30 per cent of Earnings Before Interest, Tax,  Depreciation and Amortisation. (EBITDA) (27) Question The old Act exempts dividends paid to investors in the petroleum companies from withholding tax deduction, what amendment has the Finance Act made to this old provision? Answer Such dividends paid by petroleum companies are no longer exempted from withholding tax deductions. (28) Question The withholding tax rate for construction contract was five per cent in the old Act, what is the rate in the new Finance Act? Answer The rate in the new Act is 2.5 per cent and such construction contracts is limited to construction of roads, bridges, buildings and power plants. (29)  Question What notable change has the new Act brought to personal relief and allowances (S.33) of the Personal Income Tax Act? Answer The Finance Act now restricts the claimable relief and allowances to Consolidated Relief Allowance and the allowable deductions stated in the Sixth Schedule of the Act. Review of key changes –  Changes to Value Added Tax Act Question The old Act did not specifically clarifies the taxability of goods/services supplied/rendered to a Nigerian customer by a non-resident person.  What clarification has the new Act brought on this? Answer The new Act stipulates taxability, once the beneficial owner of the right in or over the goods is a taxable person in Nigeria. Services rendered whether within or outside Nigeria is also subject to Nigerian Value Added Tax. Conclusion We shall continue with other changes in the next publication.