 It promises to be a game-changing partnership. Already, operators and stakeholders in various sectors of the economy are optimistic that the partnership between Zadara, a United States (US)-based Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) and Unitellas International Limited will halt the $10 billion capital expenditure (CapEx) by banks in Nigeria to store sensitive data in public cloud outside Nigeria. The Technical Consultant to Unitellas International Limited, the distributor of Zadara data solution in Nigeria, Mr Vijay Gurav, recently raised the alarm that banks in Nigeria were spending a conservative $10 billion yearly to store their sensitive data in public cloud outside Nigeria, through the services of Amazon Web Services (AWS), Azure and Google Cloud. Apart from raising hopes of pushing back the huge capital flight, the partnership is also expected to help boost the law on local content. This is so because with businesses and organisations being compelled to move their data to the public cloud off shore, many of them default on the guidelines on Local Content Law, which essentially requires that organisations operating within Nigeria should have their data stored in-country. The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Unitellas International Limited, Mr Smith Osemeke, put this in perspective when he said local service providers cannot compete with international cloud service providers such as AWS, Azure and Google Cloud in terms of infrastructure, pricing, service delivery and management. “This has caused a lot of companies in Nigeria to patronize international public cloud service providers by storing data from Nigeria in other countries thereby making it practically impossible to comply with the Local Content Law,” he stated. Osemeke, who spoke at a recent press conference in Lagos, to unveil the game-changing data storage solutions promised by the partnership, also said as a result of shore data storage, Financial Service Institutions (FSIs) and other key organisations invest millions of dollars annually in acquiring and managing IT infrastructure instead of focusing on their core businesses. This, he said, was because they must have an IT department to build and manage their data storage infrastructure – a service that is supposed to be handled by local service providers. “If this sad narrative is not corrected, sensitive data from Nigeria will continue to be stored outside Nigeria thus, inevitably, leading to data insecurity,” Osemeke pointed out. The Nation learnt that data insecurity, which so worries the Unitellas boss and, indeed, other stakeholders came about because Nigeria is one of the countries that lack data security. Service providers are unable to effectively store and protect data locally because they are over-burdened and challenged by outdated IT systems. According to IT experts, the existing storage infrastructure in Nigeria do not have the capabilities to offer the latest data protection mechanism. It is against this backdrop that Unitellas is partnering Zadara to empower service providers in Nigeria to meet international Managed Service Providers (MSP) standards with regards to data storage infrastructure, service, pricing and security. The Unitellas-Zadara deal will provide local service providers with infrastructure-as-a-service and enterprise-storage-as-a-service model, which eliminate huge (CapEx) with minimum Operational Expenditure (OpEx). By subscribing to Zadara data storage services with compute capability, Osemeke said local service providers and MSPs can now offer data storage and compute services with the latest data protection mechanism thereby competing effectively with renowned public cloud providers in infrastructure, security, pricing, management and service. Perhaps, more importantly, storing data in public cloud outside Nigeria, according to Osemeke, creates the problem of data protection since data stored there is exposed to cyber and ransomware attacks. He said incidents of cyber and ransomware attacks in Nigeria are high because the existing public cloud service providers do not provide absolute data protection. Noting that sensitive citizens’ data such as Biometric Verification Number (BVN), National Identity Numbers and other private and confidential details needed to be protected from such attacks and exposures, the Unitellas boss said with Zadara’s immutability storage, local service providers and organisations can fight ransomware and other malwares. Ransomware is a form of malware that encrypts a victim’s files. The attacker then demands a ransom from the victim to restore access to the data upon payment. For instance, the University of Utah recently revealed that it paid a ransomware gang $457,059 in order to avoid having hackers leak student information online. The incident was the latest in a long string of ransomware attacks where criminal groups steal sensitive files from hacked companies before encrypting their files; and in case victims refuse to pay, they threaten to release the stolen documents as a second extortion scheme. However, with immutable back-up or storage, which Unitellas and Zadara are dangling, it implies that data stored is fixed, unchangeable and cannot be deleted for a period of time or in some cases, sometimes, forever. “Having immutable storage is important for industries so that data is stored and safe from unforeseen accidents or circumstances,” Osemeke said What this means by extension, is that organisations and agencies in Nigeria that have collected citizens’ personal data through processes such as the SIM card registration, national identity card registration, new vehicle license regime, BVN, voter’s card, Tax Identification Number (TIN) etc. may have to enable immutability storage to stay safe. Others that may need to opt for the service include the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), National Identity Management Commission (NIMC), Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), and Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), among others. Although Osemeke said the company was already in discussion with some of the agencies and organisations with a view to embracing the service, one factor that may make its entry into the Nigerian market a walk in the park is that on-boarding to its services is cost effective. For instance, subscription to Zadara data storage services is about four times lower than the public cloud pricing. On subscription to a minimum of 50 Terabyte (TB) scalable to the required needs of the organisation, Unitellas will deliver the storage device (hardware) to the agency or organisation’s data centre. Gurav explained that the project implementation involving the delivery and installation of the hardware will take approximately four weeks and key IT personnel of the organisation will also be trained on how to use the provided services. He also expressed the company’s readiness to migrate all existing data of organisations that are willing to subscribe to Zadara platform without a fee. The hardware will be installed in the agency or organisation’s data centre to enable them protect their data. However, the installation is at no infrastructural cost. Payment for services is based on actual usage. In other words, it is ‘pay per use’ or ‘pay as you go’, with 24 hours technical support as well as end-of-life hardware replacement at no cost. The company is also offering scalability, which allows subscribers to shrink or grow to their data storage needs. Zadara’s flexible, cost-effective payment model remains, perhaps, one of its unique selling points as it makes its inroad into the Nigerian market. The International Data Corporation (IDC) acknowledged this much when it rated Zadara’s enterprise data storage model of “Pay Only for What You Use,” as unique among competitors in the markets. IDC is a global provider of market intelligence for IT, telecommunications and consumer technology markets. Most IT professionals, business executives, and the investing community use IDC analysis to make fact-based technology decisions in order to achieve their business objectives. IDC, in its May 2020 markets analysis of modern enterprise data storage services and solutions, said that it found Zadara’s model unique among other companies offering data storage solutions. In the report entitled: “Five factors driving enterprise data storage as a service adoption in 2020′, an analyst at IDC, Andrew Smith, said Zadara’s model is unique, in terms of the company’s comprehensive support, worldwide coverage, and serving the services providers. “Zadara’s model is unique in its focus on providing the most complete, fully managed storage services possible. Zadara goes to market with a model that is focused on providing full-service storage solutions all the way to the application layer. “To do so, it delivers the following key capabilities, which IDC believes differentiate Zadara from its competitors,” Smith said, in the report, which was accessed by The Nation. He listed the services to include comprehensive support, worldwide coverage, and serving the service providers. Encouraging analysis no doubt, but it remains to be seen how Zadara will leverage these unique attributes to play big in Nigeria’s highly competitive IT market. This is more so considering the fact that Unitellas, its partner, is a relatively new player in the market, having been incorporated as a private limited liability company in 2013. However, going by Osemeke’s assurances, the company appears poised to take the IT market by storm, drawing strength from its partnership with the US-based OEM, which is located is located in the public cloud same as AWS, Azure and Google Cloud. Zadara also has 30 data centre locations of its own, supporting over 500 service providers around the world. Two of its data centres are in Nigeria, where it is now empowering local service providers to offer data immutability. 