 SCORES of people were killed on Tuesday as the violence triggered by the hijack of #EndSARS protests expanded across the country. Governors took drastic actions to end the violence, arson and killings. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos), Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo), Seyi Makinde (Oyo), Adegboyega Oyetola (Osun), Hope Uzodimma (Imo), AbdulRahaman AbdulRazaq (Kwara), and Simeon Lalong (Plateau) imposed curfew on their states. Many policemen were killed and police stations set ablaze. Other public offices were either set on fire or invaded by hoodlums disguising as protesters. A private hospital was burnt in Lagos because the hoodlums accused its officials of refusing to admit an injured for treatment. Inspector-General of Police Mohammed Adamu deployed riot policemen across the country to protect police facilities being attacked and destroyed. In Lekki, Lagos, last night, security agents dispersed the protesters at the tollgate by force. They fired shots. Bonfires were seen in social media posts as the protesters, who did not leave the place after the curfew declared by Governor Sanwo-Olu took effect, scampered into safety. The aftermath of the situation was hazy. The Lagos State Government ordered an investigation into the Lekki incident. A statement by Commissioner for Information and Strategy Gbenga Omotoso, said the government will do everything within its power to ensure that the lives of all Lagosians are protected at all times. The statement added: “Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has advised the security agents not to arrest anyone on account of the curfew, which he urges residents to observe for the peaceful atmosphere we all cherish. ”He advises Lagosians to remain calm and not allow criminals, who have hijacked the noble protest of our gallant youths, to succeed in their evil plan of turning our dear State upside down.” Amnesty Internation also said it will probe the incident. The figure of those killed at different locations was put at 33, including policemen. Seven people were feared killed in Lagos; 10 in Abuja; eight in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, two each in Kano, Ekiti and Edo states; and one in Ogun State. The Oyo Police Command said it lost two men; the Lagos command said it was still compiling the number of casualties. A policeman was feared dead in Aba, the commercial city of Abia State. At least, seven police stations, a council secretariat and a hospital in Lagos, were torched. No fewer than 20 vehicles were burnt in Lagos; another 20 in Kano; 10 in Ibadan and six in Plateau. The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Police said seven persons were killed in Apo, Abuja on Monday, when thugs disrupted the #ENDSARS protest. Police Public Relations Officer, Yusuf Mariam, said seven people have been confirmed dead of as yesterday, and that calm had been restored in the area. No fewer than three persons were feared killed and others injured in Dutse Alhaji area yesterday as thugs continued to unleash mayhem in the FCT. The Dutse Makaranta Police Station was set ablaze by suspected hoodlums. Also torched were a church and a filling station; many vehicles and shops in the area were vandalised. The thugs, some of which were seen brought in an unmarked SUV and a police van, attacked protesters in various locations randomly. The FCT Police Command refuted reports that policemen shot at five protesters in Abuja. The Command said, on the contrary, they succeeded in restoring calm at Dutse-Alhaji. The Oyo State Police Command said two policemen were killed by criminals who hijacked the #EndSARS protest at Ojoo, Ibadan. It said the hoodlums set Ojoo Police Station ablaze at about 1:00 pm. Other officers are still missing. Police spokesman Olugbenga Fadeyi, said: “Due to the attacks, some of the Police AK 47 rifles are still missing.” In Ojoo area of Ibadan, eight persons were feared dead as the #EndSARS protest turned bloody. The incident started in the early hours of yesterday when a policemen allegedly shot one of the protesters in the leg. At least, 10 vehicles were set ablaze when the mob swooped on the police station. In Lagos, five people were feared killed in Ketu and Orile areas after violent clashes between thugs and policemen. There were also reports of violence at Meiran, Ajegunle, Mushin and Apapa areas. Police stations in Ajegunle were attacked as the fracas in Orile boiled over. It was leant cop shot an ‘area boy’ and a young man, a development that forced hoodlums to set fire on the Orile Police Station. Some of the policemen around were said to have been attacked, one of them feared killed. The incident soon escalated to Ijora, Ajegunle and Apapa with thugs attacking police stations and policemen on sight. At the time of this report, the fire was still raging while some policemen were yet to be accounted for. The Layeni and Pako police stations in Ifelodun and Apapa-Iganmu Local Council Development Area (LCDA) were set ablaze by hoodlums. This is in addition to the one in Orile, bringing to three the number of police stations burnt in Lagos yesterday. Two persons were allegedly shot dead in Mushin as the police battled hoodlums. The incident occurred as the police began to enforce the curfew. One of the victims was seen on Agege Motor Road, near Olosha drenched in blood. Hoodlums set Lagoon Hospital in Ikoyi on fire for allegedly refusing to admit a protester, who was shot. The hospital’s Chief Executive Officer, Dr Jimi Coker, said the victim was brought in dead and was abandoned outside by a commercial motorcycle rider. “It is on record that Lagoon Hospitals has always attended to all emergency cases, in line with our access to care policy for over 30 years. “Unfortunately, we have had to shut down the hospital in Apapa due to this attack,” he said. Protesters set ablaze Ajeromi-Ifelodun Local Government Area Secretariat on Baale Street, Ajegunle in Lagos. Over 20 vehicles owned by staff members were set ablaze. The mob looted an Automated Teller Machine (ATM) at the council, the chairman’s office, Council Treasurer’s office, among others. A senior official of the council told our reporter that the hoodlums arrived the council secretariat shortly after razing the police station on Layeni Street. Police stations in Ilogbo Iyana Era, Ajamgbadi and Ijanikin were also attacked. Police spokesman Olumuyiwa Adejobi said five police formations were attacked: Orile, Layeni, Amukoko, Mushin, Ilemba Hausa Divisions as well as Cele outpost. He said the thugs attacked Lagoon Hospital and partly burnt the Ajeromi Ifelodun Local Government Secretariat. “The number of policemen killed at various locations within the state will be released soon. Adequate security operatives have been deployed to enforce the curfew,” said Adejobi. In Edo, two persons were shot dead as residents defied the curfew. Youths made bonfires on roads; hoodlums openly wore stolen police uniforms and carried guns. The men were shot at the Santana Market on Sapele Road, Benin, when hoodlums and some policemen engaged in a fierce gunbattle. The daring youths continued to protest in Benin; Auchi, and Ekpoma, chanting anti-government songs while cooking, eating, drinking and dancing unmolested by the side of the roads. Many shops, offices and markets were open for business in Benin, the state capital. Hoodlums invaded the warehouse of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) in Benin City, carting away many 50kg bags of seized rice and other valuable items. They got to NCS’ warehouse near the Court of Appeal, Aduwawa on Benin-Auchi Expressway in the afternoon, overpowering the guards on duty. Governor Godwin Obaseki, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osagie, said security agencies had been deployed to enforce the curfew. Four persons, including two journalists from this newspaper and the Nigeria Television Authority (NTA), were injured in an attack by hoodlums during a peaceful #EndSARS protest at Rainbow Roundabout in Gombe. Our correspondent, Sola Shittu, and Jimmy Dantsabta of NTA were attacked while the youths were addressing the reporters at the roundabout. The hoodlums, numbering over 100 armed with cutlasses, sword, dagger, cudgels and others, pounced on the youths and attacked them with the dangerous weapons. The hoodlums, who shouted “this is Gombe”, refused pleas from the journalists and attacked them. They also smashed their phones and camera. The journalists and others ran to a police van but the hoodlums chased after them and attacked the police van and the policemen. The injured were moved out of the venue to Gombe Specialist Hospital emergency ward for treatment. Shittu was moved for an Xray as at the time of filing this report. In Plateau, the Police said the #ENDSARS protest was hijacked by thugs at the Jos Terminus as six cars were set ablaze. The hoodlums attacked people, burning and smashing the windscreens of cars parked around. They looted shops. Spokesman of the police command, Peters Donbey, said: “ I am not sure anyone lost his life.” In Ekiti, hoodlums set three cement-laden trucks on fire following alleged killing of two residents who were protesting. The drivers fled the scene to avoid being lynched by the mob. An eyewitness said the remains of the victims had been deposited in a morgue, adding that military operatives were drafted to the scene to prevent the irate youths from getting out of control. Police spokesman, Sunday Abutu, said nobody died. Youths in Kano State joined the #EndSARS protest, but hoodlums hijacked it, killing two women at Chicken Republic eatery located along Airport Road. The rioters also attacked customers at the popular Galaxy Mall along Igbo Road, in Sabon Gari area. Over 15 vehicles were set ablaze and others vandalised and smashed. Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, was grounded as hoodlums and miscreants took charge of major strategic locations in Lafenwa, Olomore, Panseke and Obantoko and extorted to no end, innocent citizens. In Obantoko area of the state, one person was said to have been killed and a few others injured as the hoodlums moved in groups of five or seven from place to place attacking people and extorting them. Aba, the commercial nerve of Abia State, boiled as security agents clashed with youths. Hoodlums attacked and set ablaze a police station along Umuoba road axis of Ogbor Hill over alleged brutality on the protesters. A policeman was reported dead during the attack, but it could not be confirmed. The Eziama Police Division located near the popular Bata junction along Aba-Ikot Ekpene Expressway was also attacked. It was learnt that the angry youths carted away valuable materials from the popular Zone 6 Police Station housing the Dragon Unit of the force under Abia State Command. The chaotic situation which saw some youths setting up bonfires on major roads, forced roadside traders and their counterparts in various major markets to close for business. Passengers at various motor parks were stranded with their wares. Intra-city commercial transporters were forced to close for the day, forcing many residents and visitors to resort to trekking to their destinations. In Umuahia, the state capital, sounds of gunshots rent the air, forcing residents and visitors to scamper to safety.