Lagos Police Commissioner, Hakeem Odumosu on Tuesday pledged to bring all those involved in the gang-rape and murder of 11-year-old Favour Ikechukwu to justice. He made the promise during a condolence visit on behalf of Inspector General of Police Mohammed Adamu to the family’s residence in Ejigbo, Lagos. Favour was gang-raped to death on September 30, at Olarenwaju Street, Ejigbo, while on an errand for her nursing mother. The Nation reports that news of Favour’s ordeal generated public outcry with more residents alleging that rape of underage girls was a norm in the neighbourhood. Consoling the deceased girl’s family, Odumosu promised that the command would support them. The police boss directed the Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID), Mrs. Yetunde Longe, who accompanied him, to deploy additional detectives from her office to go after and arrest the fleeing culprits so they can be prosecuted. Odumosu also spoke on that the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) whose activites have been curtailed by the IG, saying that the squad was is not disbanded but rather being restructured. The CP, who made the clarification at the inauguration of the Ejigbo Divisional Police Headquarter new office and official vehicles in Lagos yesterday, said the recent directive by IGP Mohammed Adamu curtailing the activities of SARS will make the squad more effective. “SARS has not been disbanded. It is an integral part of the police operation. The SARS is being restructured and so many rules and regulations are being given out in order to make them work within the ambit of the law and respect the fundamental human rights of Nigerians. “I had a meeting with them in Lagos, on Monday and gave the directive that SARS operatives must not even go to investigate any case without booking their arrival at the Area Commander’s office so that the Area Commander will know that they are in that area doing what they ought to do. And once they finish, they must go back and file entry. “I also directed that SARS operatives can no longer detain suspects without the consent of the Area Commander within the area where that operation is taking place. “The IGP has directed that we the commissioners of police, the AIG or the zonal ones must make sure that anyone that goes contrary to the ethics of the job be arrested, investigated and if there is need prosecuted.” Speaking on the milestone recorded by the Ejigbo Divisional Police Headquarters, CP Odumosu said what the community has demonstrated has boosted the confidence of the community in the police. DPO, Ejigbo Divisional Headquarters, CSP Olabisi Okuwobi said the structure which was built by Grooming Center, and the cars donated, were the result of community collaboration. “What brought about this gesture from the community is unbiased policing, professionalism, dedication to duty, commitment on our part and that is why they came on their own with these things,” Okuwobi said. 