 IT wasn’t forced on her. Rather, the responsibility of encouraging her people to participate actively in the oil & gas value chain was one she took upon herself, based on her passion to help lift the standard of living of people in the oil-rich Niger Delta region. Accordingly, the Acting General Manager, Contracts & Procurement, Neconde Energy Limited, Mrs Gracetiti Fredson, has been deploying her energy and resources into various empowerment programmes particularly for indigenes of her Ogoloma Clan of Okrika Local Government Area of Rivers State. For instance, through Richmond & Gracetiti Foundation, her Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), Mrs Fredson has been organising free seminars, workshops, trainings and intensive tutorials for students in the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) across Okrika/Ogu-Bolo Federal Constituency. She has also been distributing textbooks and schools sandals to primary school pupils, as well as organizing public enlightenment and awareness campaigns and rallies for her people. The foundation has also been organising talent hunt, musical concerts, football tournament, social/charity works, and volunteer services such as orphanage visits to DBI Foundation, as well as medical outreaches to care for the elderly and nursing mothers. Her Foundation has also awarded scholarships to first year university students; mobilized over 159 volunteers, executed nine projects; made donations to over 25 persons and assisted over 2, 000 persons. Encouraged by the feedback she has gotten from beneficiaries of her humanitarian gestures, Mrs Fredson told The Nation that she is looking forward to expanding her humanitarian services to other council areas in Rivers State with the aim of bringing love and hope to her people. A motivational speaker, she has also stepped up her advocacy for an all-inclusive Corporate Responsibility (CSR) scheme, in an ethical and legal manner, by oil and gas firms to develop host communities of the oil and gas producers. She said she believes that through such CSR programmes, people of the Niger Delta region will be in a better position to benefit from the abundant resources in their domain. Besides, they will see themselves as major stakeholders and participants in the oil & gas value chain, contributors to the development of the sector, including the protection of critical oil & gas infrastructure. Asked whether she sees the possibility of women heading some of the agencies in the oil & gas industry, particularly the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), she said competence rather than gender should be the priority. “Do we have competent persons to head the NNPC from any of the genders?” she asked. She said there are many persons, including women, who have the requisite competencies to head the NNPC and its subsidiaries. These persons, according to her, are not just competent but have the intense passion to implement and bring about reforms to the benefit of the country. “Look within the oil producing companies, woman are already managing sensitive positions and implementing changes in their domain,” she said, pointing out however that for any woman to hold a sensitive position as head of NNPC, for instance, she must have the requisite competencies such as sound knowledge of the oil & gas industry. Mrs. Fredson added that such a woman must have demonstrable knowledge of strategic planning and implementation of government/partner engagement, risk and stakeholder identification and management as well as excellent leadership skills, including staff career development, knowledge transfer and training. “There is the need for affirmation actions to ensure biases towards gender inequality are not encouraged but rather ensure an all-inclusive policy to encourages gender diversity,’’ she stated. Mrs Fredson’s insistence on competence and requisite skills is understandable. She came into the oil & gas sector prepared. Although, she studied Business Administration and Agricultural Economics & Extension from University of Calabar, she proceeded to the University of Wales to obtain a Master’s in Project Management. She also studied law, garnering a Diploma from Alison Online. At the moment, she is an L.L.M (International Commercial Law) student of the University of Sanford, United Kingdom (U.K.). She has also honed her skills through professional trainings, seminars, conferences, and symposia. Mrs Fredson, apart from being a member of Institute for Supply Management (ISM), United States, is also a member of the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply Management of Nigeria (CIPSMN), where she acquired enough skills in supply chain for her current specialty.