Managing Director of Super Structures Limited and Leisure Court, Builder, Oluwasegun Abolaji has identified prohibitive cost of acquiring land for building, poor infrastructure and rising cost of building materials as factors militating against affordable housing. Abolaji, in an interview in Lagos at the weekend, said efforts by the government and other players  in the build environment to achieve the  affordable housing initiative, may not see the light of day unless the government offers subsidy in the production of local building materials. Attributing the cost of land to over 60 per cent of the component of building, Abolaji said the government has a huge role to play by providing cheaper access for land. While calling for more government’s participation in real estate sector, the Leisure Court chief canvassed deregulation of the banking sector to create a robust window for players in the build environment to access single digit interest rates. He said players in the real estate sector were looking at accessing funds from other sources to intervene in construction of estates. Abolaji said more players would be interested in venturing into the sector if government could create a more enabling environment including provision of support infrastructure, security, security of funds and other incentives. On how to achieve affordable housing, Abolaji said: “The government also goes ahead to subsidise the price of imported building materials. Local industries should also be encouraged to do more, it will go a long way. But, that is not the only issue, we have an issue of land, the cost of acquiring land is a key factor in achieving affordable housing. “This accounts for about 60 per cent in the terms of the cost of building a house. “The cost of land acquisition is becoming very difficult and because of applying to the government to secure land for housing development is becoming a major issue. Even if you buy from family landowners,, it is still high added to the cost of procuring a certificate of occupancy. The situation could be worse if you have to buy from a third party . Government should make land available to developers, the prices of houses will crash. “I think the area where the government can contribute is enormous, including subsidizing building materials, making land available to developers. A situation where the cost of land is prohibitive, there is no way the price of houses will be affordable. “The provision of support infrastructure is vital to urban development. If you look at areas where many developers have sites for estate development, the roads are not accessible. We have to consider the roles the government could play by providing infrastructure on ground before estates are developed. When support infrastructure is provided by the government, as a developer, you just move in equipment and materials to site and continue construction.” While canvassing the use of local materials for building, Abolaji said cost remains a major consideration in working out housing solutions that cuts across different segment of society. He said : “ Our target cuts across all classes of clients , ranging from the high to the low range of customers in the build and housing value chain.. Our target is the lower end of the economy and there has been a campaign for affordable housing for many years , we think we could contribute our own quota. “Affordable housing from the point of view of cost is relative. because what one person could afford another may not be able to pay for it. But, we are constructing houses that could reach every segment of society in terms of what is  affordable. We have different packages from luxury homes to mortgage  facilities for players in the private sector . We as professionals in the build environment have been contributing our quota  and we believe that the issue of deficit or scarcity of houses is an opportunity to do more . That we have been doing and will continue to do more. Cost of building remains critical in terms of use of local materials. It is good to use local materials. I am an advocate of that , but it is not everybody that you can use local materials for. If you look at the standards we produce in Nigeria and the standards being used out there , you will see reactions from different classes of society that will enable some segments of society to have their homes. But, some particular segment of society desiring luxury homes will not find it acceptable.” On the challenge of collapsed building, he said regulators and professionals have a huge role to plan in addressing the phenomenon. Abolaji said : “ The issue is building collapse remains a challenge in the sector, we think the regulatory bodies should step up their oversight duties . Professional bodies have a huge role to play in terms of monitoring and enforcement  in addition to agencies in charge of regulations doing more. It is easier to make laws than implementing them. “ Enforcement is key, if you make the law without enforcing it , it will give rise to misuse of opportunities. We have quacks who parade themselves as builders and engineers , they do not adhere to building regulations. There is also the usage of substandard materials , which is another factor. If the regulators and operators do more to mitigate the effects, there will be no issue.” He said the company will deepen participation in the build environment by extending its tentacles across the country. He said :” We just opened an office in Lagos to deepen our nationwide penetration in the housing  business solutions . We have operated in Abuja as a household name in providing affordable accommodation under the ownership and mortgage category. We are a group of seasoned professionals.inthe real estate sector , We have a team comprising builders, engineers architects, providing excellent housing solutions. “This we have done very effectively in the past , we feel it is the best if we extend a hand of fellowship to Lagos in an attempt to solve more housing problems. “In the next 10 years we hope to be one of the biggest stakeholders in Lagos. We are starting with four sites, two on the mainland in Ogudu GRA and Alaka in Surulere. We have other sites like Lekki with hope to expand to Ogun and Oyo State. We are in Osun and other places.” Abolaji urged government to step up its participation in the real states sector 9 of its role as the second largest  contributor  to  the gross domestic product. He said : “ The sector is already contributing hugely , all that is required is for the government to key in and see it as an opportunity to do more. This has become imperative, because the world is moving away from fossil fuel to other sources of energy like intelligent cars, the government should look more into the real estate economy , because it is the place where you find  tangibles of the economy . to attract offshore funding into the real estate sector takes us back to the issue of provision of infrastructure. One key factor that attracts foreign investment  is infrastructure. If the infrastructure is on ground , you can  attract  investors. Anybody coming to invest is interested in the security of the funds, your life . If the government could do more in terms of infrastructure, it will attract more investment. We need to further deregulate the banking system to enable operators access to cheaper funds , at single digit interest rates. With the double digit interest rates charged by many commercial banks, many property developers will prefer to seek funds from other sources. The business could be better if developers could attract funds at single digit interest rates , you can do a lot.” 