In 2017, Adekunle Ayobami was a second-year student of the Federal Polytechnic, Offa, when operatives of the now disbanded Special Anti-Robbery squad harassed him and collected his school fees. Ayobami said he was stopped, beaten and exploited financially by SARS operatives in the country. Ayobami, who said he had to pay as high as N150,000 to SARS operatives on one occasion. “In this country, there is something called injustice like we have laws but we don’t follow the rules. Like being a citizen in the first place, there are some benefits that you will be entitled to. There is no empowerment for youths yet we are still trying to survive but we are still being treated like slaves which is not supposed to be. “At least, you must to pay a minimum of N25,000 and the maximum I have paid at a go is N150,000. When I was in 200 level, they once collected my school fee. I was able to find another school fee since I knew I had no choice and I had to pursue my career.” Ayobami was one of the individuals who shared their personal experiences with SARS officials with this reporter during the #EndSARS protest in Ibadan on Friday. The call for the total scrap of the Special Anti-Robbery Unit (SARS) of the Nigeria Police Force is a call that has existed for years but never before had the level of agitation resulted in nationwide protests and mass outcry like now.  Protest rocks Ibadan  On Wednesday, youths in Ibadan commenced a three-day protest to demand an immediate scrap of the SARS unit of the Nigeria Police Force. The protest reached its climax on Friday when thousands of youths resilient in their call hit the streets of the capital city around 9 a.m. The protesters moved from Eleyele to the Police headquarters at Eleyele and other strategic locations before arriving the State Secretariat around 11:30 a.m. Many of the protesters, who spoke with this reporter, maintained that the unit must be scrapped, noting that anything short of that would be ineffective. They described any form of reformation of the Police Force without a scrap of the SARS unit as another ‘lip-service’ from the government. One of the organisers and lead influencers of the protest in Ibadan, Asiwaju Lerry, a digital entrepreneur, explained that he had been stopped and harassed by SARS officials. He noted that unlike many others, he had never had to pay to find his way through but emphasized that he did not have to wait till then before joining the #EndSARS campaign because the question was not whether it will happen, it was when it would. “We are here for just one thing, a peaceful protest. As a digital entrepreneur, SARS has harassed me on the way but the only thing is that not everyone has been as lucky as I am. When they harass me, I fight for my right but some other people they harass, they extort, drive them to an ambush and they collect money from them,” Duke of Ibadan, as he is widely known, said. “We want just one thing. They should #EndSARS. They keep disbanding SARS and immediately they go back into the street to harass people again.” Another protester, Mr. Olawale Akorede, said he had been harassed by SARS officials on multiple occasions, noting that that he also had to pay before being released on about four different occasions. “I have had multiple experiences with SARS. There were days I am travelling down to my hometown, Akure from Ibadan and they stopped me around Iwo-road, harassed me, checking all my properties without me dressing like a criminal, without them finding me in a compromising situation. These has happened on multiple times. “I didn’t pay the first time. There are times I paid N30,000. There are times I paid N50,000. The last time I stood my ground but that was after multiple slaps and beating,” he said. Mr. Akorede maintained that anytime he had to bribe SARS officials, it affected him personally because in most cases he had to pay from his personal savings. He also argued that he is not in support of any reform because “there is no reform. They should end the branch of the police called SARS.” Oluwakemi, a shoemaker while narrating her experience with SARS, said nobody was safe in the country anymore because SARS officials even entered people’s house to harass. “I had a personal experience with them earlier this year. I was on bike with one of the persons that work for me. They just came from nowhere. Inside the traffic; anything could have happened, any car could have hit us. And they were showing us gun, for what? They said, ‘let me see your phone.’ Ok, this is my phone but nothing was on my phone. “Even if you want to arrest a person, you will go through normal procedures. Not because I look good, not because I dress well, not because I am using a good phone you should be harassing us on the road. It’s not called for. They go to people’s house to arrest them. We are not safe in our house; we are not safe on the street. If we should stay at home and say we are not going to do anything about it then they will not do anything about it too. “Everybody have to come out to fight for our rights. This is our fundamental human right. We want them to put an end to unjust killing; to police brutality. It is not too much for us to ask. It is not too much too much for us as a youth of this country to ask. I was born and bred in this country. If I am not safe here, I can’t be safe anywhere. I can’t be safe anywhere, if I am not safe in my own father’s land,” she said. She also revealed that her 18-year-old brother was arrested recently by “SARS officials just because he was on dread” and her parents had to go and bail him out with N15,000. “We are not fighting that the police force should not do their work.; they can do their work. We are not saying if they see somebody that is corrupt they should let go. We are not saying if they see criminals they should let go. We just want them to stop this unjust killing of people that are not criminals. Of people that are just normal youths going out to make their daily bread and they will just kill them like they are ruthless animals,” she added.  ‘I feared SARS more than armed robbers’ – Physically challenged man  Also present at the youth-dominated protest in Ibadan on Friday was Mr. Okunola Babajide, a physically challenged man. Mr. Babajide, who spoke with this reporter, explained that he had no choice but to join the protest very early in the morning because he had experienced first-hand SARS brutality noting that he fears SARS officials more than armed robbers. According to him, he had to negotiate the amount he will pay the last time SARS officials stopped him about a month ago when they threatened to arrest him for an offence he had no idea about. “Last two months, me and my guys were going to Palms mall, they blocked us at challenge. They checked our car, our phone. They didn’t find anything incriminating but at the end of the day we had to pay N10,000 because they threatened that they will carry us to Iyaganku (Police headquarters) and they will rob us in for an offence. They asked for N50,000 but we negotiated to N10,000. “They are not doing their job. It is not in their job to move around. If you watch American movies, they have SWAT but you don’t see them on the road in America. It is only when there is armed robbery that they involve themselves but here they don’t do what they are created to do. I fear SARS more than the armed robbers they were created to attack,” he added amid shouts of #EndSARS in the air.  ‘You can’t address us’  When the protesters arrived the state secretariat around 11 a.m. the gate was locked preventing any entry and exit till late in the night when they decided to give the federal government a three-day ultimatum to accede to their demands otherwise their protest will continue. But till they left no official of the state government addressed them. Around 1 pm, the Commissioner for youths and sports affairs came out to address the protesters but he was turned back by the angry youths who claimed he was not the one they voted. Around 2 pm, the deputy chief whip of the House of Assembly, Hon. Yusuf Oladeni, approached the protesters but he was again not allowed to speak. The protesters were adamant that only Governor Seyi Makinde; his deputy, Remi Olaniyan or the Speaker of the House of Assembly, Hon. Debo Ogundoyin, could address them. Oladeni pleaded that the governor and the Speaker were in Ondo State. He also promised protesters he would ensure the Governor’s Chief of Staff, Hon. Bisi Ilaka, address the protesters. However, the Chief of Staff did not show up till the protesters left late in the night.  ’70 percent of SARS activities are bad’ – Oyo lawmaker  In a brief interview with this reporter shortly after leaving the protest ground, Hon. Oladeni Yusuf stated that he was fully in support of the EndSARS campaign. He maintained that 70 percent of SARS activities are bad. “We need to take our time and talk with the law enforcement agencies and the judicial side of the country to help us reform the laws and principles guiding the Federal SARS. We need to look for a way to either eradicate SARS or reform it and call it another name with principles and change how they operate. “They are doing the right thing. It is a means of explaining their side of the issue. They are trying to express their mind. There is no other way they can do it other than the way they are currently doing it.”