 Tottenham Hotspurs manager  Jose Mourinho couldn’t resist a dig at Manchester United following the side’s controversial win against Brighton last weekend;  and this would set the tone of what would be a titanic battle  tomorrow  when the  light-hearted Portuguese  coach  returns to Old Trafford to take on his old team. Last weekend, Bruno Fernandes gave United all three points with the final kick of the game on the south coast, after the referee awarded a spot kick for a handball on Neal Maupay. However, the decision was made in controversial circumstances as the final whistle had already been blown following the handball, meaning the game had to be restarted in order for Fernandes to take the kick. “At some clubs, even after the last whistle, it’s possible for something important to happen, but for us I knew that after the last whistle it was over,” said Mourinho. It is the latest in a growing list of digs that Mourinho has taken against his former employers. United boss Ole Gunnar Solskjaer made a jovial comment after the win against Brighton on Saturday that Mourinho will check the dimensions of the goal frame next week, after the Seagulls hit the woodwork on five occasions in their 3-2 defeat. The comment was in reference to the fact that Mourinho filed a complaint to UEFA ahead of Spurs’ win against KF Shkëndija in Macedonia on Thursday as the side were using smaller goals. However, Mourinho took exception to the Norwegian’s comments and aimed a jibe back at Solskjaer by saying the United boss is only concerned with the size of the 18-yard box, which was a dig at the amount of penalties that the Red Devils are awarded. Mourinho, who will be returning to Old Trafford for the second time following his sacking in December 2018, will be desperate to get a big win over his former employers and pile on their miseries.  With their first ‘big’ obstacle of the season ahead, Solskajer’s side must light up the fire in their bellies and take the fight right to Spurs at Old Trafford. United finally managed to pick up their first win of the Premier League season last week, but it was thanks to some help from lady luck. They weren’t anywhere near as good and got outpla yed by an inspired Brighton side, only to steal three points at the very end. If United go into the game against Tottenham Hotspur with a similar careless attitude, they’d be in for a rude awakening. Despite the fortunate win at Brighton, it was rather evident that United have suffered from the lack of a proper pre-season campaign this year. The players are extremely out of sync, lacking the chemistry or togetherness which allowed them to notch up a top-3 finish last time around. What is more worrying is some of last season’s best players have started this one poorly. Solskjaer has insisted that his side needs some games to get back to full fitness, but he’ll hope his side rediscover their swagger on Sunday. What United really need to bring against Tottenham is aggressive and that hunger to win. Over the last two games, the Red Devils have almost invited opponents to cause them problems and been too callous in their defensive approach. They need to be more dominating, piling in tackles and being fearless with taking the fight right to the opponents. If they play it safe again, Harry Kane & co will make them pay. The Red Devils also need to up the ante with their attacking display, which has been sub-par recently. They’ve been lacklustre in creating opportunities and wasted the good ones. Solskjaer will demand his players to be more creative, assertive going forward and make the counter-attacks count. But unfortunately for United, they’ll rarely get chances to hit Spurs on the counter due to their defensive approach. As a result, the likes of Bruno Fernandes & Paul Pogba need to make the most in unlocking their rigid backline. Pogba has been especially poor in recent games, but the added incentive of playing against the manager who tried ending his United career can reinvigorate him to put in a special performance. Fernandes still looks bit far from his best, but his tendency to come up with something special even in poor performances should help him torment Spurs. Anthony Martial has been ineffective in recent games and needs to show more hunger to carve chances for himself, while Marcus Rashford looks to maintain his steady improvement by troubling the defenders with his pace and unpredictability. The fact is with the kind of attacking personal at hand, United will create enough goal-scoring chances. The bigger problem right now is their shaky, unreliable backline. The back-four looks completely out of synch & extremely error-prone, something Spurs will look to capitalize at. While Nemanja Matic does provide some extra protection and steel, the defenders need to toughen themselves up. Luke Shaw & Aaron Wan-Bissaka not only need to be more effective going forward, but also at the back. They can’t allow Spurs to put in crosses or move freely through the wings as they did against Brighton. Harry Maguire & Victor Lindelof both need to maintain utmost concentration to handle the pressure and be more assertive when defending in 1v1 scenarios. Even without Son or Bale, Spurs still boast a strong attack. Kane has been transformed into a more ‘complete striker’, having developed that creative gene that allows him to find menacing passes for teammates. Steven Bergwijn left United defenders scrambling last time they met and his pace & direct approach will be troublesome. Spurs’ wing-backs Matt Doherty and Sergio Reguilon also love booming into the box to create trouble, while Tanguy N’dombele can run the show with ease unless bottled down. United can’t afford to concede an early goal or allow Spurs to take the lead. Do so & Jose’s side happily parks the bus and block them out. The Red Devils must be cautious at the back but play a free-flowing, attractive style to break down the visitors & win their first game at Old Trafford. But there would be  huge attention today when Leeds host Manchester  in a match between two of the game’s consummate tactician. This is the first meeting in any competition between Leeds and Man City since February 2013, with the Citizens winning 4-0 in an FA Cup tie but the fourth meeting in all competitions between Leeds boss Marcelo Bielsa and Man City’s Pep Guardiola. In the  other three  encounters  between Guardiola’s Barcelona and Bielsa’s Athletic Bilbao in the 2011-12 season , Guardiola remained unbeaten in all three meetings. Incidentally, both clubs come into today’s encounter   with some contrasting fortunes since the start of the season. Leeds fell 4-3 to Liverpool on Opening Day but has since beaten Fulham and Sheffield United to sit top half of the table in this very young Premier League season. On the other hand, Man City fell 5-2 to Leicester City at home last weekend after beating Wolves to start their PL season. A midweek clean sheet of Burnley shows that Pep Guardiola’s men aren’t dead, and the Catalan mastermind will relish the chance to match wits with a man he hails as a role model in Bielsa. Guardiola once called Bielsa the best manager in the world. But  Bielsa insists he’s no mentor of  his Manchester City counterpart :”I do not feel like a mentor to Guardiola.