President Muhammadu Buhari, other eminent Nigerians and the nation’s major political parties yesterday urged the citizenry to use today’s celebration of Mawlud Nabiyy to share love, embrace peace and work for the nation’s progress. President Buhari urged Nigerians to shun negative tendencies, including looting and wanton destruction of public and private property. A statement in Abuja by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, said: “As Muslims in Nigeria join others all over the world to mark the Mawlud Nabiyy, President Buhari has urged all citizens to use the occasion to reflect on the virtues of the Holy Prophet by showing love and understanding for fellow citizens while exhibiting patience, honesty, sincerity, kindness and generosity in all their undertakings.” The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), in a statement in Abuja by its Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena, urged Nigerians to pray for peace, progress and unity of the country. Also, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in a statement by its spokesman Kola Ologbondiyan, said: “Our party believes in the sense of brotherliness among Nigerians and urges that such should be promoted and guided jealously to ensure the stability and prosperity of our nation.” Senate President Ahmad Lawan hailed Nigerians, particularly the Muslim Ummah, on the celebration of the birth of Prophet Mohammad. In a statement by his Special Adviser (Media), Ola Awoniyi, the Senate President said: “Our harrowing experience over the past few weeks underscores the need for us as a people of faith to imbibe and demonstrate in our every conduct, the virtues of love, peace and tolerance, which Prophet Mohammad personifies.” The senator representing Lagos Central, Oluremi Tinubu, said: “I felicitate with Muslims in the Lagos Central Senatorial District, Lagos State and across the federation on this celebration of the commemoration of the birthday of Prophet Mohammad (SAW). “The weeks in the run-up to this celebration have been challenging, commencing with protests calling for an end to police brutality and extrajudicial killings which degenerated into mayhem and chaos, resulting in loss of lives and property. “As we celebrate, I urge you all to give peace a chance, refusing to let detractors of our democracy and hoodlums ruin our Communities and collective gains. We must also be open to dialogue as a means of resolving our challenges and building an equitable and just nation. “We must continue to let Prophet Mohammad’s teachings of tolerance, piety, and peaceful co-existence govern our actions, while remaining patriotic to our Nation. “If anything is certain, it is that if we all commit to playing our part in building the country of our dreams, a Nigeria where our human resources are maximised, critical infrastructure is abundant and the economy thrives is possible.” House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila and his deputy, Idris Wase, enjoined the Muslim Ummah and other Nigerians to show more love towards one another and promote unity and understanding. Also, Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike, the Minority Caucus in the House of Representatives and the Oba of Benin, Ewuare II, urged Muslims to embrace peace.  