The burning and looting of public and private properties continued on Sunday. The National Christian Elders Forum (NCEF) and a coalition of 200 civil society organisations (CSOs) frowned at the development. The elders and CSOs, who faulted the killings of protesters by the military during the #EndSARS protest, also frowned at the burning and looting of private and public infrastructures in Adamawa, Plateau, Kogi, Bauchi, calling on security agencies to immediately arrest and prosecute perpetrators of the heinous acts. NCEF pleaded with National Assembly to as a matter of urgency begin probe of the killings during the protests. NCEF appealed to the youths to suspend any further public protest, adding that the “point has been made that though Nigerians are tolerant and patient, they are not docile”. “Any government that seeks to take Nigerians for granted does so at its own peril,” the elders said. “That Civil Liberties Organisations and affected individuals should engage in litigation over the unnecessary display of aggression by the government against the peaceful protesters. The Nigerian Bar Association should render public service to Nigerians by arranging Lawyers to represent, pro bono, those who desire to utilize legal means to seek redress,” the NCEF said. The coalition of CSOs spoke in a statement signed by its convener, Coalition of Human Rights Advocates (COHURA), Dr. Banjo Ayodele; Mrs. Ngozi Okocha for Conference of Africa Mothers Forum (COAMOF); Dr. Zainab Alkali for Justice and Equity Network (JUEGN) and Festus Igbokwe for Justice And people’s Network (JUPENE). They appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to order the security forces to decisively restore law and order, expressing fears that any delayed action could take the country to a state of anarchy. “We wish to urge President Muhammadu Buhari to immediately restore law and order in Nigeria,” they said in the statement. The coalition also called on governors to immediately begin engagement of youths in town-hall meetings on peace in their various states.  Hundreds of youth on Sunday morning broke into a large warehouse in Adamawa State and carted away the food items stored there. Governor Ahmadu Fintiri imposed a curfew on the state, starting 3p.m. on Sunday. Videos posted by witnesses first showed the youths advancing towards the warehouse and security operatives forming a cordon over the warehouse and asking the youths to stay off. The warehouse is at Kwarnawaya, a community by the Yola-Numan Road, near Yola, the state capital. A subsequent video showed the youths in their hundreds getting past the security operatives and succeeding in throwing the gate of the warehouse open and entering to help themselves to available food items. The break-in, which occurred as many residents were in church yesterday morning, came as the first #EndSARS related violence in Adamawa State. The state seemed to be quite aloof to the whole thing, especially after a trickle of youths who attempted a protest match were dispersed by the police a little over a week ago. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) in Adamawa State, DSP Suleiman Nguroje, said the police had mobilised officers and men to the place. Fintiri said the incidents had forced him to take quick steps to avoid escalation. The governor, who mentioned four instances when his government distributed palliative items to the people since the COVID-19 pandemic started, announced that the government was to again start the process of distributing available items today. “In view of the above, I have declared and imposed an indefinite dawn to dusk curfew throughout the state beginning from 3 o’clock Sunday the 25th of October 2020,” he said. Despite 24-hours curfew imposed by the Plateau State Government in two councils on Saturday, youths in Jos broken into the Plateau Agricultural Development Programme (PADP), Dogon Dagi compound and carted away fertiliser and other farm inputs. At the time of filing this report, hundreds of them, including women, were seen carting away the agricultural inputs out of the premises. Thousands of people in different shades invaded the government warehouses and looted palliatives meant to cushion the effects of COVID-19 in the state. Hoodlums also gathered in front of Federal Secretariat, insisting on bringing it down in search of food. House of Representatives Deputy Speaker Ahmed Idris Wase yesterday appealed to the youth to exhibit restraint over the #EndSARS protests and avoided taken laws into their hands. The lawmaker also advised them to be calm and conduct themselves in a peaceful manner and allow the government to implement the promises made over the #EndSARS protests and not to take laws into their hands. He spoke in a statement issued on Sunday by his Chief Press Secretary, Umar Mohammed Puma, in Jos and urged the youth, particularly in Plateau State, to give peace a chance. Hoodlums also reportedly attacked the house of the Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong’s father-in-law at Tudan Wada, Jos, on Sunday afternoon. Although he was not harmed, valuables were carted away. It was gathered that security agents were immediately deployed in the area to wade off any eventuality, as the hoodlums were swiftly dispersed. Also, the School of Home Economy, the Local Government Secretariat in Riyom, the warehouse as well as the NSCDC Office were reportedly vandalised. Suspected hoodlums in the early hours of Sunday attempted to raid a COVID-19 palliative warehouse in Bauchi State, but were disappointed after they found it empty. Governor Bala Mohammed posted the development on his verified twitter-handle. According to him, the state government had no reason to delay distribution of palliatives in the wake of the pandemic as everything was shared to the beneficiaries as at when due. Four unidentified persons were said to have lost their lives on Sunday afternoon in Kogi as hundreds of residents stormed a state warehouse in Lokoja in search of COVID-19 palliatives. The warehouse on the Murtala Muhammed Way, close to Kpata market, was reportedly invaded mostly by the women as early as 7a.m. on Saturday, through yesterday. The fatalities, it was gathered, resulted from the stampede by the palliatives seeking people, who rushed at the government’s warehouse. The state government had last week began with the distribution of the palliatives to the 21 local government areas. Each local government area got at least one trailer load of palliative items, including rice, Semovita, Indomie noodles and pasta in 10 kilogramme packs. The siege of the warehouse, it was gathered, might not be unconnected with an order by Governor Yahaya Bello that the remaining items be distributed to people. There was confusion in Abuja when hundreds of hoodlums on Sunday afternoon invaded the Idu Industrial Layout, raiding several warehouses in search of palliatives. This happened in the presence of security operatives, who looked the other way while the looting continued. The Idu Industrial Layout is where Federal Capital Territory Administration’s (FCTA) grains are reserved. A witness, who saw the thugs looting, told our correspondent that they made away with bags of rice, cartons of tin tomatoes, cereal, milk, bails of Ankara materials, generators, pumping machine and other items. Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) Chairman, Abdullahi Adamu Candido also confirmed the attack and looting. Candido, who said he personally witnessed the incident, said the hoodlums overpowered the few security personnel that were on the ground. The AMAC Chairman noted: “The hoodlums, numbering over 300, overpowered the security personnel that were on the ground. So, they broke the warehouse and carted away several bags of grains.”