In case Lagos State has not realised it, it is at war. The same goes for Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, and former governor Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Following the unclear reportage of the Lekki incident, certain divisive elements capitalised on the scenario to push a narrative that there was a massacre orchestrated by the former governor, approved by President Muhammadu Buhari, and executed with finesse by the incumbent governor. The narrative started as a low din on the social media, but finally rose to decibels loud enough to beat the band. Unfortunately, precious uninspiring little was done to counter these devastating offensives. The siege to the character of these persons are powerful and it is testament to the level of ignorance in the society and among social media youths that these narratives even gathered any momentum. Nothing the governor said has proved to those who have been conditioned to loathe him that he has no power over the police or the army. Similarly, nothing Asiwaju Tinubu has said will convince his detractors about his influence and investments in Lagos State. Moreover, though the EndSARS youths in Lagos have bought what appears a mischievously defaming narrative online, all the brigandage and looting that occurred across the state was not perpetrated by the youths. The real freebooters may have been captured by the CCTVs of companies around areas where they operated. The state government could retrieve these footages and find some of the plunderers who stole and destroyed freely. The state government should also corroborate its defence that it was in no way complicit to the Lekki affair by making video evidence available indicting those who are truly guilty. The economic damage visited on the state over the past week must not be repeated in any state of the country. The identity of those on the offensive may remain unclear, but the most decisive battle in the war is being fought on the social media. Algorithms and influence control that domain, and those being attacked are being soundly beaten on it. They may find it in their interest to take the battle to whomever their foes are on the social media.