 LIKE every Nigerian, we are alarmed at the latest broad findings by the Independent Corrupt Practices and Related Offences Commission (ICPC) of widespread malfeasance by some officials of government agencies. Speaking at the Second National Summit on Diminishing Corruption with the theme: “Together Against Corruption and Launch of the National Ethics and Integrity Policy,” at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, Monday last week, chairman, ICPC, Bolaji Owasanoye, disclosed that the agency discovered N2.67 billion meant for the school feeding programme in private accounts. Alleging that some unnamed officials caused some transfers to be made to a sub-TSA to prevent disbursement from being monitored, his commission, he said, nonetheless “discovered payments to some federal colleges for school feeding in the sum of N2.67 billion during lockdown when the children were not in school” – which he said, “ended up in personal accounts”. That was not all. Owasanoye also fingered the agriculture ministry in an alleged sleaze of N16 billion paid into individual accounts for non-official purposes. There was, according to him, another case involving the sum of N2.5 billion allegedly diverted by a deceased worker in the same ministry, as well as the recovery of 18 buildings, 12 business premises, and 25 plots of land. As if to underscore how pervasive the rot is, the ICPC boss gave the example of the review of the Open Treasury Portal carried out from January to August 15, which showed that 72 out of 268 ministries, departments, and agencies had cumulative infractions of N90 million. While 33 MDAs, according to him, tendered explanations that N4.1 billion was transferred to sub-Treasury Single Account, N4.2billion paid to individuals had no satisfactory explanations. The findings are certainly as grave as they are revealing. For instance, while it seems inexplicable that such scale of heist could happen at a time the economy as indeed most activities of government are on shutdown, just as confounding must be the knowledge that billions of naira of taxpayers’ funds could even be processed and transferred into personal accounts without setting off a trigger in the system of controls in place. What then is the import or even the utility of the Treasury Single Account (TSA) regime and other extant financial controls said to be in place if some individuals can still so easily outsmart the different layers of control to perpetrate such level of fraud? And to imagine the specific finding that monies meant for the federal schools for school feeding would find their ways into individual accounts, even when the schools were under lock and key? Is that how things are done in the ministry? The officials of the ministry certainly have a lot of explaining to do on this matter. If there is any positive thing in the development however, it would be, or as it appears to be, the relative ease with which the ICPC is able to follow the money. Even here, it must be said that to the extent that the ICPC fell short in naming the specific individuals involved, it does not only itself much disservice but also the country. In other words, having gone public with the finding (the inference is that the commission has concluded preliminary investigations), the commission owes Nigerians a commensurate duty of going the whole hog by unmasking the identity of the owners. That way, Nigerians would be assured that nothing would be swept under the carpet; and that those involved would be brought to book to the full extent of the law.