 The KPMG Nigeria digital channels report for the banking industry has ranked Wema Bank Plc as a leader in internet and mobile banking space. For instance, ALAT, a fully digital bank by Wema Bank, has simplified banking by creating a perfect blend of speed and functionality. A report posted on its website, KPMG Nigeria signed by Partner & Lead Digital Transformation KPMG in Africa, Boye Ademola, explained that as a leader, Wema Bank has capacity to onboard customers digitally end-to-end without the need to visit branches or agents and is delivering innovative products to enrich payment and transfer offerings. He said that Wema Bank has also embarked on an aggressive play to accelerate the Self- Service agenda for customers and is able to engage and resolve customer complaints on the channels. The KPMG  explained that based on its user journey-centred assessment of retail banks’ digital channels, it categorised banks into four distinct categories: Leaders, Challengers, Followers or Late Starters. According to the report, challengers performed well on the user journeys, but lack some of the key ingredients that should place them in the leaders’ tier. “While they are able to offer effective user journeys on their channels, they fall behind the leaders on the array of capabilities and quality of user experience. These banks can become leaders in the near future if they are able to leverage design thinking principles to resolve user experience issues and deploy innovative capabilities that will deliver an engaging digital experience on their channels,” it said. It said followers are unable to onboard customers digitally without requiring them to visit the branch, have several disjointed user journeys, limited self-service offerings and struggle with responding to and resolving customer complaints in a timely manner while late starters either do not have several important user journeys or offer several broken journeys. Late starters are unable to onboard customers digitally, have unwieldy user journeys, lack Self-Service offerings and struggle with respect to customer care. KPMG said that as evidenced by the growth in mobile subscriber numbers and internet penetration in Nigeria, it is not surprising that the customer demography is rapidly changing. “The new customer is becoming more accustomed to using mobile devices for access to services, including shopping, travel, entertainment, social interactions, news, financial services among others. With over 82 million Nigerians accessing the internet through mobile phones and accounting for more than 73 per cent of the country’s internet traffic, it is evident that there is increasing adoption of mobile by customers,” it said. It said the recent COVID-19 pandemic lockdown further reinforces the need for banks to ensure that customers can access all services digitally as the restriction of movement meant that branches were unavailable to serve customers. However, banks that had developed strong digital capabilities provided their customers with sufficient digital alternatives during the lockdown period. KPMG said that ensuring their ability to sustain service delivery, attract new customers and grow revenue despite the pandemic situation. “Although restrictions are beginning to ease, the effects of the pandemic continue to be felt locally and globally, the changes we are seeing are likely not short-term as customer adoption of technology has been heightened. This presents a new reality for businesses to grapple with, thus, surmounting the challenges of this new reality will require banks to anticipate and prepare for the changes in their consumers’ needs, behaviours and preferences. “As we shift from short-term responses to the COVID-19 challenge to a new way of life, Financial Services providers must continue to provide essential services to customers digitally while protecting the well-being of their employees. Banks can leverage this pandemic as an opportunity to benchmark and identify gaps in their digital channels capabilities”. For years, ALAT has made it possible for Nigerians to complete the most complex banking transactions right from the comfort of their homes. And from inception till date, ALAT hasn’t just provided the latest banking technology, but fit perfectly into the lifestyle of Nigerians; making life easier for everyone. To stay ahead of competition and serve its customers better, ALAT by Wema Bank recently upgraded its mobile app – ALAT 4.0 to enable customers remain connected to do much more. A unique app that provides seamless access to an array of exciting features serves as a platform where customers can personalise offerings to meet their frequent financial and lifestyle needs. Being a customer-centric financial institution, the upgraded app serves as a one-stop platform that gives customers the option to create unique experiences for themselves; this includes dashboard personalisation where customers can decide to hide and unhide their account balance as well as to display most frequently used feature on their dashboard. The card control option, a new feature in the app  enables customers to put a limit on their spending habit and the reintroduction of the virtual dollar card which gives customers the ability to make international payments irrespective of the currency. ALAT has also expanded loan offerings to goal based loans, salary-based lending and device loan. Customers can also top up existing loan amount, make part payment during the loan cycle at anytime and liquidate the loan before the end of the loan cycle at any given time.