The Financial Technology (FinTech) space attracted over $600 million in investment between 2014 and last year, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer(CEO) of the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Commission (NDIC), Alhaji Umaru Ibrahim, has said. Ibrahim made this known yesterday in Lagos at a workshop by the NDIC for reporters . It had as theme, ‘COVID-19 and FinTech disruption: Opportunities and challenges for banking system and deposit insurance.’ He said Nigeria houses over 200 fintech firms, which last year alone, attracted $122million of the $491.6million raised by African fintech startups, adding that only Kenya attracted more at $149 million. He said: “Nigeria is home to over 200 fintechs and there are a number of fintech solutions offered by banks and mobile networks operators as part of their product portfolio. Within 2014 and 2019, Nigeria’s burstling fintech scene attracted more than $600million in funding; attracting 25 percent, that is, $122million of the $491.6million raised by African fintech startups in 2019 alone. We are only second to Kenya which attracted $149million. “The emergence of digital financial services enabled by financial technology (Fintech) has enhanced efficiency in the financial sector but has also posed new challenges to financial regulators and consumers. This became more apparent during the pandemic when the lockdown protocols hindered physical access to financial services, encouraging more Nigerians to rely on digital financial services. “Inevitably, the media was also adversely impacted by the pandemic. Our attempts to tackle the erosion of public confidence due to the prevalence of fake news, particularly via social media, became a matter of serious concern.” “As disruptive as the COVID-19 has been to other sectors of the country, I would like to humbly state that the NDIC was not caught napping. Based on its robust and proactive Enterprise Risk Management strategy, the Corporation immediately swung into action by activating its Crisis Management Action Plan to prevent any negative impact on the operations of the NDIC and the financial institutions under its supervision. “The goal is to ensure the safety and protection of all staff and stakeholders to maintain continuity of its operations towards protecting depositors’ funds and ensuring the stability of the banking sector.” The Director of Research, Policy and International Relations, NDIC, Dr. Sunday Oluyemi, stated that to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on the economy, the Federal Government introduced several fiscal and monetary intervention programmes. He said, “The President in his 29th March 2020 speech directed for extension of a three-month repayment moratorium for TraderMoni, MarketMoni and FarmerMoni loans. Similar moratorium was offered to all FG-funded credits advance by the Bank of Industry (BoI), Bank of Agriculture (BOA) and the Nigerian Export Import Bank (NEXIM). “Contingency funds of N984 million were released to Nigeria’s Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Contingency funds and an additional N6.5 billion was distributed for purchasing more testing kits, opening isolation centres and training medical personnel.”