Oyo State Government has directed schools in Ibadan to resume academic activities from today. Speaking through the Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, Mr. Olasunkanmi Olaleye, Governor Seyi Makinde made the directive known in a statement yesterday. He said the directive followed a review of the situation in Ibadan metropolis as earlier promised by the governor. The governor expressed the appreciation of the youth, who have been cooperating with security operatives to keep the peace. The statement said: “His Excellency, Governor Seyi Makinde, directed the closure of schools in Ibadan metropolis on October 20, in the wake of #Endsars protests that rocked the state. “His Excellency had in a message to the people of Oyo State stated that the situation would be reviewed on October 23. “Following a review of the situation as earlier promised, the state government is happy to observe that normalcy has returned to the state in the aftermath of the protests. “The governor appreciates the youth who have been cooperating with security operatives to maintain peace, while assuring them that their demands are being addressed.” Concerned youths in Oyo State, under the auspices of #Notobadgovernance, at the weekend embarked on environmental sanitation and cleaning of the environment. The youth, who were seen removing debris, objects and heavy items used for roadblocks during the #EndSARS protest, said the effort was to ensure that the state and country returned to normalcy. The convener, Mr.  Kunle Odujare, explaining the rationale behind the decision, said the move was to ensure that the roads and streets were free of items and objects that had littered the places, adding that it was also to douse tension among the residents. He said they embarked on the clean-up to contribute their quota in restoring sanity to the state and dissociate themselves from the looting and destruction of properties ongoing in parts of the state. Odujare said the youth were out to show that they were responsible and law-abiding. Some of the areas cleaned up included Challenge, Iwo-Road and Mokola. While urging the residents to join the cleaning and clearing of the roads, the convener assured the government that youths were advocates of peace. Odujare said cleaning of major parts of the state is part of the strategies put in place following the earlier decision to suspend protests across the state. He hoped that more youths would join the train to clean up the streets. 