Bing 60 on a limp was not what many expected when the Union Jack folded out of the Nigerian skies on October 1, 1960. It was a day not only of hope, but wild optimism. A baby nation with a population larger than any place on earth with the concentration of black people, with resources bursting on land, in the air and under the earth, with human resources growing into the world’s envy, Nigeria joined the comity of nations like what Chinua Achebe described as “yam tendrils in the rainy season.” Today, that same nation cannot decide how to worship or whether to ever worship. Its multiplicity of ethnic groups speak different languages, none of them in harmony. North cannot embrace south. North cannot embrace itself across classes. South is a babel of warring nationalisms. South is haughty without strategy. Education standards have plummeted, but the best are not eager to pay a nation with its brains because pastures abound outside. Young men and women want to be rich without work, love without devotion. They disdain merit but want the accolades. They are in the numbers for the kidnap of others, especially the well-feathered. The ornate class props itself in mansions and luxury flats built mostly for men flourishing in the languor of larceny. The homes are built on the sweats of compatriot serfs from the money acquired without a bead of perspiration. The poor live in slums with more stench than they knew when they were born 60 years ago. So the rich suspect the poor more and the poor are still victims even though they still cannot accept the mores and vanity of their oppressors. So, as we mark our sixth decade as a free country, we are not sure what liberty is. Is it free when food fades from the dinner table? Is it free when a young man wants to protest injustice and he cannot do that without spending long days in prison? Is freedom when neither rich nor poor can travel the highways without foreboding, without assurance of arriving destination alive or not ending in a jungle hovel with goons who want money they probably do not have? Is it freedom when a farmer cannot pluck out their maize or yam tuber without a herd of barbaric men with cattle snatching the crops with impunity or even exercising the impunity on wives or daughters or any nubile female in erotic mania? We cannot even agree whether we are a democracy or an autocracy even though we work on a constitution promulgated and written by autocrats for democrats. The democrats who have received the constitution cannot agree on how not to remain under the sway of its autocratic forbears.  For years, we have debated without progress what kind of federalism we should be. Some already conclude we have enough of federalism not to tinker with the glory of the system. Others are scandalised that a unitary system in the cloak of a federalism is not obvious to their opponents. Some say we are doing well with a presidential system. Others say we lie to call it a presidential system when even the bureaucracies come from the Westminster system inherited from Britain. They say it is not presidential or Westminster, but a horrid hybrid. They are calling for a less expensive model. Presidentialism is too much a price to pay for a poor country facing the niceties of ethnic suspicions and struggling workers. They are purists of the Westminster model. The opponents cry that we had that system in the First Republic, and it gave us a hysterical and murderous rumble in the Western Region, workers in turbulence and strikes in the country, a coup of young soldierly idealists redefined by others as bigots of tribe and region. Later the country fell into a pogrom and a bloodletting of a civil war that lasted 30 months. So, each side agrees that neither system was perfect, but no side is ready to sit down, debate and arrive at a sort of consensus. When they sat, it was seen as a tendentious affair by those not invited because the process of convening the session was not seen as inspiring consensus. There has been no war of fratricidal tenor since the civil war in the first decade of independence, yet the nation has never been this divided. In the northeast, we have seen a band of religious militants hold the nation to ransom for closing on a decade. We have deployed some of our best soldiers, the best of our resources and intelligence. Yet we have only slaked their thirst for more of the blood of our fellow citizens. The point is that the military elite have not been able to shake off the allegations that the war on terror is overshadowed by another terror that has not been properly mowed down: corruption. Resources have not been properly accounted for. The budget has not matched result, raising questions as to whether profiteering has not trumped resolve to end the war of the militants.  So, the army elite should be attacked by ammunitions of a legal and political morality. But the war on corruption has often suffered from contradictions since the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission was set up by the Obasanjo administration. That leaves Nigeria a hodgepodge, a confusion of values and intentions, of leaders and their visions, of people dreaming and loving the fantasy over their reality. In spite of that, we have had a nation where its citizens have excelled among the best in the world, from sports to letters to medicine to technology to music to photography. We continue to shine like meteors in a vast night sky. The darkness prevails although the flicker will come again. In education, we have seen so many do well from the boy who excelled in New York in chess, or the ballet genius, or the technology female whiz-kid in Britain or the Ikorodu Bois, a budding giant promises to wake up. We have seen those who genuinely love to unite us and are not fazed by the divisive forces. We hail men and women, the activists, the few politicians, the religious leaders who separate from flamboyant charlatans, the writers, singers, drummers, farmers, artisans, the unsung heroes and heroines, the sacrifices of the poor. The nation may be far from where we want it. But we shall never shy away from what we want. We cannot celebrate despair. We still believe in hope.