  Wema Bank Plc has  opened a new branch in Oregun, Lagos as it continues its strategic expansion to meet the demands of customers. In a statement, the bank said the new branch would strengthen its business in line with its growth path. Its said Executive Director Lagos Directorate, Wole Ajimisinmi: “The new branch follows our strategic growth plan as we are committed to expanding our services to places where there are compelling business opportunities. The bank’s position on this has not changed.” The bank also embarked on some schemes to cushion the effect of the pandemic on individuals, businesses and communities. As a response to the financial impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on businesses, one of the key initiatives the bank has taken to alleviate the financial strain of her borrowing customers is to suspend the loan repayments for small and medium scale enterprises (SMEs). The bank’s Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Ademola Adebise, said: “We are a caring bank and we won’t relent in our efforts to continually initiate programmes that would be of immense benefit to our customers and their businesses.  “Considering it’s a continuous process of innovation for us at Wema Bank, we encourage our customers and everyone to look out for our initiatives, as I can assure you there is always something good from us for everyone.” The bank has also launched collateral free loan products to support its customers. The loan offering which is open to healthcare businesses, school owners, as well as those dealing in trading or  commerce is available to the bank’s existing and new customers.” Adebise added: “As we critically pay attention to supporting players in the health sector, as a bank, we are also constantly looking into how we can support our customers financially. We hope individuals and business owners take advantage of these programs for their financial wellbeing and to help keep their businesses afloat.” The bank is also set to reward its saving customers on the Royal Kiddies Account platform. As a drive towards supporting an early start to financial freedom, Wema Bank launched the Royal kiddies Account program, and now the Bank is set to reward its customers with school support funds in her 2020 Wema Educational Award. By opening a new account or topping up with a hundred thousand naira on an existing Royal Kiddies Account, customers can were able to gain eligibility to win the fifty thousand naira school support fund.