 Nigerians need to comply with compulsory insurance policy in the country to ensure economic revival when there are loss of lives and properties, the Commissioner for Insurance, National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), Mr Sunday Thomas, has said. Thomas, who made this known while speaking on the importance of insurance, said if they complied, public buildings, including schools, offices, hotels, hospitals, markets would have been insured. He added that buildings under construction that are more than two floors would also be insured; there will be Group Life Insurance for all employees of both public and private sectors; there would be professional indemnity for all medical practitioners and all motor vehicle would have third party insurance in respect of death, injury or damage to the property of third parties. Thomas reiterated that the Financial Services Industry is central to the growth and sustainable development of any nation and state because of its direct impact on access to finance, catalyst to improved income, poverty reduction and stability in the financial system. He said the insurance industry as a subset of the financial services industry is a pivot to guarantee the sustainability of growth and development of the state and its people, He maintained that the commission has therefore noted the necessity to plant “Insurance” and “People” at the centre of any equation that tends to create, enhance, sustain and manage growth and development in any economy. He said: “As a people, human activities have associated risks and in spite of every precautionary measure to avoid the occurrence of losses or damages, the unexpected still occur. In consequence of the losses the victims are prone to sufferings which in many cases may lead to total impoverishment of a large proportion of those affected. “To ameliorate the situation of victims, laws have been put in place for an arrangement that will ensure that victims and especially third parties are adequately compensated. The objectives of protecting third parties and relieving the government of the avoidable burden of compensation from the meagre wallet of the government led to the enactment of various laws on compulsory insurance products. “Over the years, the Commission has embarked on series of programmes aimed at a nationwide massive public enlightenment with respect to compliance with the laws on compulsory insurances. The relevant Laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria have made some insurances mandatory. They are: Builders Liability; Occupiers Liability; Group Life Insurance; and Third Party Motor Vehicle Insurance”, he noted.