 Nigeria’s oil and gas reserves, the country’s young and growing population as well as being  Africa’s largest economy are potential for the insurance sector, AM Best has said. In a Best’s Market Segment Report: “Nigeria’s Insurance Market Offers Significant Potential Despite Headwinds”, AM Best noted that due to COVID-19, National Insurance Commission had agreed to delay plans to strengthen capitalisation and limit the premium flowing out of the country. It said insurance penetration – market gross written premium (GWP) as a percentage of gross domestic product (GDP) – is extremely low, highlighting the market’s long-term growth opportunities. The international credit rating agency said Nigeria’s failure to deliver on that potential historically had been due in part to the volatility of real GDP growth in the country, coupled with the sporadic enforcement of mandatory retail insurance lines. It noted that robust and timely statistics to support insurers’ knowledge and understanding of trends, are scarce. While the official statistics published by the insurance market regulator covers financial information up to December 2018, for this report, AM Best also made use of year-end financial information from the 15 largest insurers (which account for approximately four fifths of the market’s GWP). AM Best expects that one of the immediate effects of the lockdown will likely be a positive impact on claims frequency for motor writers.  However, any positive impact is expected to be offset by the effect of the projected economic contraction on other lines of business, as well as increased volatility in financial markets. This may adversely impact the insurance sector’s profitability and solvency.  On recapitalisation and changing regulatory requirements, AM Best said in 2007, NAICOM raised its minimum capital requirements by over 1,000 per cent and while this led to a widespread recapitalisation, a steady increase in insurers’ underwriting leverage had been observed. Regulatory data shows that GWP growth has outpaced capital generation since 2014. This trend continued for 2019, according to AM Best’s analysis, with a projected ratio of GWP to capital and surplus of approximately 115 per cent, up from 75 per cent in 2014. To strengthen capitalisation of the market and to limit premium flowing out of the country, NAICOM’s 2018 circular outlined plans to increase capital for (re)insurers. The proposed changes were met with opposition, culminating in a ruling that the proposed regulation was not compliant with the Insurance Act of 2003. Therefore, no changes were made, the agency said. .