 Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academics), University of Uyo, Prof. Enoidem Usoro, has called for a reappraisal of business education to ensure business educators and graduates remain competitive while coping  with challenges posed by the coronavirus pandemic. Usoro made the call in Awka, the Anambra State capital, during the 32rd Annual National Conference organised by the Association of Business Educators of Nigeria (ABEN) themed “Organising and managing Business Education in Nigeria.” She lamented inadequate instructional equipment and laboratory tools as well as failure of most graduates to acquire the needed skills upon graduation, which she said, has resulted in  increased unemployment. “As business educators, we must think outside the box. We need to rethink and chart a new course for business education programme in Nigeria by ensuring we employ emerging method of delivery via virtual environment for better skill acquisition and development. “We need to reappraise  business education in Nigeria  to ensure that business educators and graduates remain competitive and also  cope with challenges posed by the coronavirus pandemic. “There is lack of  adequate instructional equipment and laboratory tools. Thus,  many graduates of business education roam the streets with their certificates looking for white collar jobs because they  failed  to acquire sufficient  entrepreneurial skills needed  to establish businesses of their own,” she said. While calling for urgent solution to  infrastructural decay in business education , the VC underscored the need to harmonise the curriculum structure of the programme in universities. She expressed optimism that the conference would do justice in addressing the issues and offer realistic solutions, urging business educators to be committed and ensure professionalism in their daily  teaching activities. Vice-Chancellor, Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Prof. Charles Esimone stressed the need to impact skills on business education students to enable them become self independent. Esimone, represented by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic), Prof. Frederick Odibo, said his administration was building an edifice for vocational education in the university, while reassuring ABEN of  his unflinching support. Earlier, President, ABEN, Prof. Chika Madu Ile, said the conference was aimed at providing desirable platforms for experts to converge and deliberate  on critical issues bordering on business education curriculum and practices, business and entrepreneurship skills. He said the issues were ignited by changes in technology, environment, workplace, work demands and the dynamism of the society. “Business education needs  to be properly organised and managed to fulfill its mandate of ensuring that students are properly guided through carefully planned experiences that will offer them the opportunity to master knowledge, skills and attitudes needed not only to succeed in business but also  in life,” he said. 