Leader of the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB) Nnamdi Kanu, has Wednesday denied involvement in the alleged snatching of guns in Ebonyi State. Kanu who reacted in a statement by IPOB Media and Publicity Secrrtary, Emma Powerful on Wednesday, described the allegation as unfounded and a total falsehood. “We wish to state clearly that we know nothing about the alleged snatching of guns in Ebonyi State. The allegation by the Ebonyi State Police Commissioner that our members snatched two AK-47 from Area Commander is unfounded and a total falsehood. “This is another fabrication by the police in their usual characteristics of propaganda and blackmail to disrepute IPOB. We dissociate from the alleged attack as we knew nothing about it. “We have always made it known that our philosophy for Biafra actualization is nonviolent, but any day we want to change that approach we shall make it known. If we want to go into arms struggle we know where to go and source for arms. We won’t defend Biafra with stolen guns from the Nigeria Police. So, linking IPOB with stolen guns in Ebonyi cannot fly. It’s a blatant lie.” He therefore called on the Police hierarchy in Ebonyi State as well as Governor Dave Umahi, to immediately halt all the harassment and intimidation of “our members and Ebonyi indigenes since the beginning of the ongoing #EndSARS protest. The security agents have been abducting the youths and tagging them armed robbers.” He accused Umahi also collaborating with Miyetti Allah in killing “anybody standing against ceding our ancestral lands to Fulani in Ebonyi State. He should stop using security operatives to intimidate our members.” “We are particularly upset by the recent arrest of innocent and peaceful IPOB members and tagging them armed robbers by Dave Umahi and Police Commissioner in Ebonyi state. He said: “On Friday of October 2020, the Nigeria Police and Ngbo Central Security Vigilante arrested Mazi Alieze Uchenna, Mazi Agbo Chinonso, Mazi Onwe Okechukwu and Onwe Onyekachi and forced them to admit to allegations of being robbers. They were subsequently charged for robbery. “This continued illegal abduction and kidnapping of innocent people in our land must stop. The Nigeria government and her security operatives should stop testing our will.”