The ban on rallies and protests in Lagos on Independence Day were not unconnected with plans by hoodlums to use granite to block bridges and ground movement around the state, The Nation has learnt. It was also revealed the ban was targeted specifically at secessionist groups that planned to use such gatherings to hoist flags that would have undermined the sovereignty of Nigeria. Lagos Commissioner of Police (CP), Hakeem Odumosu, stated these during an interview with The Nation. According to Odumosu, the police and sister agencies had series of meetings and came up with a security strategy to ensure no group or persons held the state to ransom. The police chief, who went on show-of-force patrols across the state, expressed satisfaction those who planned to cause bedlam and by extension commit crimes were kept away by the adequate deployment of operatives. He said: “Before today, there were series of releases and so many things were said about today. There was a lot of tension and so, it was our duty to ensure there was no breakdown of law and order. “I have been out on patrol since last night because we received information some people wanted to use granite to block the bridges. Some said they wanted to hoist a flag. We cannot let any such thing happen in Lagos. “I can tell you everywhere is peaceful. We had series of meetings with Area Commanders and also sister security services in the build up to this day (Independence Day). We strategised to ensure that law abiding citizens go about their business without obstructions, harassment or fear. “Remember that the public holiday is only for government workers and those doing white collar jobs. “Those who do not belong to these categories go about their daily businesses and so, we are duty bound to ensure they go out without hindrances. “That’s why we needed to provide security. We needed to douse the tension, encourage people who want to go out by assuring them of their security. I will say that the presence of security contributed to the peace. “We were out there to protect the lives and property of the people including those of protesters as well as manage traffic. We ensured those protesting did not constitute traffic snarl because we know that when there is traffic other activities like pickpocket can crop up. “I do not know the total number of those arrested yet. I am yet to get details from the Area Commanders but I know some people were apprehended for different offences including breaching COVID-19 protocols. “We have not profiled them to know whether they belong to any of the unlawful groups such as IPOB, OPC or #RevolutionNow, they will be held for the offence committed. We have to realise that we will not allow groups that are not recognised by law have the same status as those recognised by law.”