Governor Adegboyega Oyetola of Osun State has approved the immediate implementation of Minimum Wage, lifting of ban on Annual Salary Increment and embargo placed on promotions and conversions since 2012. Consequently, Oyetola announced the immediate  implementation of welfare packages for all categories of workers in the State. This was contained in a statement by Oyetola’s Chief Press Secretary, Mr Ismail Omipidan on Saturday. He disclosed that the implementation of welfare packages will commence on November 1, 2020. Signing the new minimum wage at the Governor’s office, Abere in the presence of the Labour Unions, Oyetola said it is to meet up with the numerous demands of the workers in the face of economic challenges. His words: “You will all recall that, despite the raging economic challenges when we came into office in 2018, we resolved as an Administration to give the welfare of our workers the deserved attention. “As you all know, we came into office in the heat of strident economic challenges necessitated by oil price shocks, debilitating monthly allocations and lean internally generated revenue. We also inherited arrears of pension, embargo on promotion and conversion, ban on annual salary increment since 2012, among others. “While we were still battling with these ominous challenges, the Federal Government approved minimum wage in response to Labour agitation. But despite these stifling challenges, we remained resolute to fulfill our promises to workers as a welfare-oriented government. “During the presentation of the 2019 Budget, our maiden budget, I promised that late-payment of workers’ salaries would be a thing of the past. We continue to fulfill this promise to date. We are also delivering service and projects since we came into power about two years ago. “With the implementation of the New Minimum Wage, I wish to state that the action we have taken today would bring an additional N750million cost to our monthly wage bill. “Part of our strategies for getting by in this harsh economic environment was the introduction of fiscal discipline through cutting of wastes, plugging excesses as well as adopting creativity in governance. We are also working hard to increase the revenue of our State.” The governor urged them to increase on their productivity and support the government in its efforts to improve the Internally Generated Revenue. The Governor who recalled the pocket of socio-economic challenges inherited by his administration, said “despite these stifling challenges, we remained resolute to fulfil our promises to workers as a welfare-oriented government”. Earlier, State Chairman, Nigeria Labour Congress, Comrade Jacob Adekomi, had lauded Governor Oyetola for running workers-friendly government since assumption of office. Adekomi said the approval and implementation of the welfare packages would go a long way to rekindle the workers’ hope and reinvigorate their morale. Those in attendance include the Deputy Governor, Benedict Alabi; Secretary to the State Government, Prince Wole Oyebamiji; Chief of Staff to the Governor, Dr. Charles ‘Diji Akinola; Head of Service, Dr. Olowogboyega Oyebade; some cabinet members, State Chairman, Trade Union Congress (TUC) DrComrade Adebowale Adekola; Chairman Joint Negotiating Council, Comrade Bayo Adejumo, among others.