 EIGHT states on Tuesday imposed a curfew to arrest escalating violence and killings as hoodlums hijacked the #EndSARS protests. Lagos, Ondo, Ekiti, Abia, Plateau, Osun, Kwara and Imo states announced curfews; others set up probe panels as directed by the National Economic Council (NEC). Lagos Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu imposed a 24-hour curfew, with effect from 4 pm. This was later adjusted to 9pm He said: “I have watched with shock how what began as a peaceful #EndSARS protest has degenerated into a monster that is threatening the well-being of our society. “Lives and limbs have been lost as criminals and miscreants are now hiding under the umbrella of these protests to unleash mayhem on our State. “As a government that is alive to its responsibility and has shown a commitment to the movement #ENDSARS, we will not watch and allow anarchy in our dear state.” Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi imposed a 24-hour curfew, with effect from 10 pm last night. “Government cannot afford to watch a deliberate enthronement of anarchy by some bad elements who have hijacked the protest for some clandestine reasons,” Secretary to the State Government Mr Biodun Oyebanji said. The Abia State government imposed a 24-hour curfew and placed N1million reward for each authentic video evidence on brutality, extrajudicial killings by security agents in the state. “To ensure the continued security of lives and property of law-abiding citizens, the governor has also directed the imposition of a 24-hour curfew on Aba and Umuahia from 6 pm today (yesterday) till further notice,” the state said. Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong announced a 24-hour curfew in Jos North and South with effect from 8 pm on Tuesday. At least, 10 vehicles were burnt; two churches were torched and shops looted by the hoodlums who hijacked the protest in Jos. Osun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola imposed a 24-hour curfew from 11.59 pm. He noted the “unfortunate dangerous dimension the #EndSARS protests have assumed across the country, particularly in the Southwest states”. Imo State Governor Hope Uzodimma declared a 24-hour curfew, following an alleged plan by hoodlums to turn the #EndSARS protest into violence. He said in a broadcast that the curfew would begin at midnight. Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, promised to set up a Judicial Panel of Inquiry to investigate the brutality and human rights abuses of the disbanded Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) in the state. Wike, who spoke in a state-wide broadcast, said the state initially declined to set up another panel but reconsidered because of new facts and evidence on the ground. Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu asked pupils to remain at home until further notice. The governor also inaugurated a Judicial Panel of Inquiry on the activities of SARS and imposed curfew. Ebonyi State Governor David Umahi warned #EndSARS protesters against barricading roads in the state as they risked facing the newly constituted judicial panel of inquiry. He spoke while inaugurating the eight-member judicial panel of inquiry into cases of police brutality, human rights violations and related cases of extra-judicial killings. Kwara and Adamawa states also inaugurated similar judicial panels. Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde announced the deployment of men of the Operation Burst to various hotspots in Ibadan to restore normalcy. “The members of the team will continue to protect genuine protesters and their right to protest, but we cannot allow persons with ulterior motives to hijack the protest,” he said in a broadcast. Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki last night met with security chiefs. He warned violators of his indefinite curfew across the 18 local government areas of the state to desist forthwith or face dire consequences.  