 THE Super Eagles along with their officials would today undergo another round of COVID-19 test ahead of Friday’s international friendly match against the Fennecs of Algeria. Though camp sources hinted that the players are fit as a fiddle, the test is mandatory as per the laydown protocols in view of the coronavirus pandemic. Aside the match against the African champions Algeria, the coach Gernot Rohr-led side will also face-off against Tunisia next Tuesday with both matches to be played behind closed doors in line with COVID-19 protocols at the Jacques Lemans Arena. “We are going to have another COVID-19 test in the morning tomorrow (today) and training in the afternoon,” Rohr told NationSport. Meanwhile,  the German coach said  the newly invited  players  have been impressive  in training  and there is  the possibility  that some  might be thrown into the thick of action  in these upcoming international friendly matches. Judging from their first two training sessions with at their Hotel die Zeit a der Glan in Austria camp, new boys including Frank Onyeka and Chidera Ejuke would hopefully be relishing the chance to impress Nigerian fans. Ejuke reportedly showed glimpses of why he is so highly rated with his dribbling and ability to get out of tight spaces while Onyeka was impressive in the defensive midfield position despite taking a knock as he attempted to intercept a pass. Striker Cyriel Dessers wasn’t among the goals in yesterday’s session but he was very lively and impressive during the shooting practice while 2019 U17 World Cup star and TSV Hartberg midfielder Samson Tijani has improved his reading of the game and hit a sweet effort which resulted in one of the goals that handed his team a 4-1 win during the session. “Good impression of the new players,” Rohr said in his usual frankness. In a related development, the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) in its official release said all is set for tomorrow’s  clash against  the North African side that nailed the Super  Eagles 1-0 in the  decisive semi-final tie at the 2019 Africa Cup of nations(AFCON) in Egypt.