Security was beefed up in Anambra and Abia states on Monday following a plan by the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) to stage a protest in the Southeast and Southsouth. IPOB had on Sunday urged members to join the peaceful protest, during which cities would be cleaned up. But the group, through its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, said its Anambra Command had already cleaned up the mess caused by the miscreants that held the state hostage for the past one week. “Residents of Nnewi and Onitsha are asked to go about their businesses while waiting for further directives from the supreme leader. “We are also disassociating ourselves from the faceless viral video threatening to attack prisons in Anambra State. “It is cowardly. We do not hide our faces while making our statement. We are fearless. We are not in support of such cowardly statement,” IPOB said. The protest or clean-up also did not hold in Aba and Umuahia, Abia State, as earlier announced. When our reporter visited parts of Umuahia, people were seen going about their business. There was no sign that the clean-up exercise and the peaceful protest took place anywhere in the city. Stern-looking security personnel were seen at strategic places as the state government had earlier assured it was going to protect lives and property. In Anambra, security patrol teams made up of the Joint Task Force (JTF) were seen moving around major the towns of Awka, Onitsha and Nnewi as directed by Governor Willie Obiano. They were also seen at strategic locations, especially government establishments, wielding sophisticated weapons. IPOB has threatened to disgrace corrupt politicians whenever they are found outside the country. Its leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, in a live broadcast, said there would be no hiding place for looters anywhere in the world. He said: “Any day any corrupt Nigerian political office holder is sighted in any foreign country, such a person will be publicly disgraced and humiliated. “From today, October 25, 2020, if we get you abroad, we will disgrace you. Stay at home until you meet the 23 demands of the youths,” he said. Kanu blamed the infrastructural decay and endemic corruption in Nigeria on the avarice of the politicians. He said politicians let schools collapse while funding their children’s education abroad with stolen funds. “The children of such politicians schooling abroad will be chased back home by the diasporan Nigerians to enrol in schools which their parents failed to renovate and fund at home,” he added. The IPOB leader said he was aggrieved by the shooting of youths who were protesting against police brutality at the Lekki tollgate in Lagos.