 IN history, we’ve always had an affinity for twos. Most things come in two opposite sides; like two sides of a coin. You can have man or woman, rich or poor, white or black, slaves or masters, oppressor or the oppressed. But, over the years, we’ve come to see the relief of human rights activism, which in itself is a voice of the downtrodden against the oppressors, bringing about freedom amid fear and funfair, and everything turns out just. But in the end, people wander in-between the space of freedom. On the campus, there are people with distinctive behavioural traits. We have two groups – the staff members and the students. The staff members are on the superior side, and the students on the other side. Why? The staff members are the adults who manage  the institution, whereas the students are temporary residents who are trained by the staff members. The students are different and this affects their behaviour. Psychologically, people aren’t going to be in unity with one another, they will be at loggerheads. Violence is in the blood; it’s like an addiction, and people let it out at a given chance. This is not to justify violence, but rather to assert that there would be misconducts, and we live in a society where pride isn’t seen in something inherent or abstract, but in physical worldly acquisitions. Simply, our love for material wealth has made our belligerent nature even worse. And right on campus, under our noses, we ’d see students whose only mission is to oppress their colleagues. They are the ones who dress to kill, boast about their properties or show off their belongings on campus. This is really prevalent and shouldn’t be a pressing issue. However, the coronavirus lockdown has dispersed  students from schools for six months, which was enough for a number of them to acquire wealth, which in most cases is often illegal. But that’s not the only vice these oppressors commit; after stealing a foreigner’a life’s savings, they then enrich themselves with the ill-gotten wealth and they show off on campus to intimidate the ones whose conscience would not allow them stoop so low. Just as the campus is nearing resumption, some oppressors are planning to make life miserable for the less fortunate. I keep hearing if you don’t have a car, don’t resume; If you use a phone that is cheaper than iPhone 7, then you are a persona non grata. I understand that this is banter, but this could still encroach the mind of a weak minded student who suffers inferiority complex. A similar scenario to this has to be the ‘boys’ trending on twitter some months back after secondary school opened for WAEC examinations. One would even see from the viral videos that these youngmen didn’t only oppressed their colleagues, but also their teachers; it’s like the lockdown is a bioengineered mechanical incubation for fraudsters. 