 The founder of FCMB Group, Otunba Olasubomi Balogun, has  donated the Otunba Tunwase National Pediatrics Centre (OTNPC), worth about N5billion, located at Ijebu-Ode in Ogun State to the University of Ibadan (UI), its College of Medicine and the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan, Oyo State. At the handover in Lagos, a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed by Otunba Balogun; the Group Chief Executive of FCMB Group Plc, Ladi Balogun, who is the Chairman of the Board of Otunba Tunwase National Pediatrics Centre, the Management of the University of Ibadan (UI) and its College of Medicine, led by the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Idowu Olayinka as well as the Management of the University College Hospital, led by its Chief Medical Director, Prof. Abiodun Otegbayo. Balogun said: ”When I took over the equipment of the children’s hospital in the UCH Ibadan, I was exposed to the true plight of sick children. The late Professor Olikoye Ransome-Kuti had attended a function where I was honoured for my philanthropic activities.” He said although some  institutions had requested to manage it, the former minister suggested that he gave the facility   to UI, and that the university would bring UCH into managing it. Until recently, it was discovered there were some administrative frictions between the beneficiary institutions, which now necessitated, a formal signing of an MoU. Addressing journalists on the lingering management challenge prior to the new MoU, after the signing, the Vice Chancellor, University of Ibadan, Professor Idowu Olayinka said, “there was no crises but a mere administrative discrepancy arising from the previously signed MoU. As you are aware, Otunba Balogun donated the Otunba Tunwase National Pediatrics Centre at Ijebu Ode to the University of Ibadan, a few years ago, almost 10 years ago. We have had some structural problems as to how to provide clinical services and other medical services to the inhabitants.” Also speaking with journalists, the Provost of University of Ibadan’s College of Medicine, Professor Olayinka Omigbodun, expressed joy over the resolution reached. She said, ”for many years, we had difficulties running the centre. Note that the University is known for education, research and other academic works”. 