Afenifere leader Pa Rueben Fasoranti on Monday called for the reduction of the size of government and cost of governance. He also called for comprehensive reforms across the sectors encompassing devolution of powers, resource control and restructuring. Fasoranti said in a statement in Akure, the Ondo State capital, that the message of the #EndSARS protesters is clear, urging President Muhammadu Buhari and governors to see the implementation of their demands as the key to good governance, better security and stable economy. He said the government should rescue Nigeria from imminent disintegration and destruction. Fasoranti stressed: “Let us restructure our country into a fairer, more just and equitable polity now. To enhance nationwide security, create state police. To enhance nationwide development and progress return control of resources to states. “To ensure peaceful and harmonious co-existence, devolve more powers to the states. To reduce corruption and cost of governance, reduce the size of governance.” Fasoranti said complained about “plundering the commonwealth in a mindless frenzy of corruption, bigotry, injustice and social decadence, perpetrated with disdain and  impunity, selfishly unmindful of dissipating assets and  wealth; without any compunction in leaving massive Infrastructural deficit and  mounting indebtedness for the younger generation”. He added: “Afenifere is not in the least surprised by the #ENDSARS protests that have rocked Nigeria for several days now, as it is a natural flow from the cumulative actions of mindless ruling elites over the years. “The Nigerian youths have always shown indignation against state’s irresponsibility at critical stages over decades. “In 1961, they shot down the Anglo-Nigerian defend pact. In1978, they took over the streets of Nigeria in the ‘Ali Must Go’ crisis. In 1986, they had a showdown over the killings of four ABU students by the police and in 1992, it was the anti-SAP revolt. “At a time the government was thinking that it had removed the spark of protests in Nigeria with organised labour compromise over the hike in fuel prices and electricity tariff, the young people woke up again over the extra-judicial killings and other brutalities of SARS. “For decades, and more stridently in recent times, patriotic citizens have ceaselessly clamoured for a new constitutional order to arrest the downward spiral of our country into the abyss of political destruction. “We have witnessed, over the years, the systematic savaging and plundering of our collective well-being in a mindless frenzy of corruption, bigotry, injustice and social decadence, perpetrated with disdain and impunity. “The signs have been clear for some time, that we were approaching the tipping point. Events of the past few days, will appear to suggest that the last straw is nigh… “We call on the President, the National and State Assembly and Governors to heed to the patriotic demands of our youth and be willing to absorb the financial consequences by reducing their own salaries and expenses; as well as the costs of running the government.”