 A VILLAGE Head and 12 other persons have been killed in separate attacks on communities in Kaduna State. The village head of Runji in Auchan Ward, Ikara Local Government Area of the state, Alhaji Musa Abubakar was reportedly killed on Sunday in his residence by gunmen. The 12 others were killed by bandits who attacked two communities in Giwa Local Govermment Area of the state. Eight persons were injured in the attacks, which took place at the weekend. A source said the gunmen killed three persons and wounded four in Kidandan village on Friday, while nine were killed and four critically injured in Kadai community on Saturday. The government blamed bandits for the killings. The government in a statement on Sunday condoled with the affected communities, and wished the injured a speedy recovery. In the statement, Commissioner, Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan said that a team of policemen, local vigilance officials and the military overpowered the the horde of hoodlums, killing many of them and injuring a lot more. Aruwan added that it was while the hoodlums were fleeing that they killed 12 villagers between Friday and Saturday. “The simultaneous offensives were successful as many of the bandits were neutralized and many more incurred life threatening injuries. “It was while escaping from the superior firepower that some of the fleeing armed bandits carried out a reprisal attack on Kadai village, leading to loss of lives, and razing of houses, motorcycles and vehicles in the village, besides the victims affected in Kidandan,” Aruwan said. The statement said Governor Nasir El-Rufai has “directed the commissioner in charge of liaising with security agencies to provide him with hourly briefings on the security situation.” Son of the late Village Head, Suleiman Musa, who is also the Village Head of Rafin Rogo confirmed the development to our correspondent, said his father was shot four times by the attackers. According to Musa, “the gunmen invaded the Sarki’s house around 2:00am on Sunday. They operated without any resistance and they killed him at exactly 2:30am. “They scaled the fence to access the compound, after which they broke into the house and brought him out to the his outer lounge where they shot him. “The attackers came purposely to kill him, not to collect anyting from him, because he offered to give them money, they refused, he offered them his car, they refused, they said, they were sent to kill him,” he said. Gunmen on Saturday evening abducted some persons in Pegi community in Kuje Area Council of Abuja and abducted some persons, The Nation gathered. Police spokesman Yusuf Mariam confirmed the incident yesterday. A source said the abductors demanded N100 million ransom. The residents complained that police response to such attacks is poor. Pegi is said to be a target of frequent attacks.  