   THERE is renewed tension in Ukpo and Dunukofia Communities in Anambra State, following the alleged refusal by the police and some youths to mount the burial flex of the late Prof James Adiichie at Abba-Ukpo junction on the Onitsha-Enugu expressway. The late 88-year-old Prof Adichie died on June 10, 2020, and was the father of award-winning novelist and motivational speaker Chimamanda Adichie. There had been a case of land dispute between the two neighboring communities, which had lasted many years. Ukpo is home of oil magnate, Prince Arthur Eze, and it is in Dunukofia Local Government Area, while Abba is in Njikoka Local Government area. But they share boundaries. Save for the intervention of some policemen sent to the Adichie family to plead with their colleagues at the junction, there might have been a bloody clash among the youths of both communities yesterday. The Nation gathered that the policemen at the junction, with some group of men, disallowed Abba residents from erecting the banners. The late Adichie was the first Nigerian Professor of Statistics and, upon retirement from the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN), he lived in Abba, where he held the prestigious traditional title of “Odelu Ora” Abba. A community leader in Abba, who spoke in confidence with The Nation, alleged that some banners of their brother were torn in the presence of policemen. He said: “It took the timely arrival of few policemen attached to Adichie’s family and pleas from Adichie’s brothers to save the situation from degenerating into a squabble. “Concerned youths from Abba had insisted that the banners must be erected at the junction, on the Enugu-Onitsha Expressway.” Contacted, Anambra State Police Command’s spokesman Mohammed Haruna, a Superintendent of Police (SP), said he had not received a report on the incident. But the spokesperson for Zone 13 Command – comprising Anambra and Enugu states – Princess Nkeiruka Nwode, promised to get back to our reporter on the incident, but did not last night. Also, the late Prof. Adichie will be laid to rest today at Abba after a requiem mass at St. Paul’s Catholic Church in the town.