Moroccan Achraf  Hakimi’s influence since arriving in Milan has been sensational  and Richard Hall now looks at how he is more than just a ‘bright young thing.’ Achraf Hakimi has taken Serie A by storm since his arrival in the summer. The former Real Madrid full-back has not just settled immediately but has set the bar for what the modern full-back needs to be. He was outstanding in Ukraine, even though Inter failed to beat Shakhtar Donetsk but as the honours were shared, the Moroccan can look back on his performance with pride. If Antonio Conte can learn how to unleash him further, he could help Inter become a much more potent team to face. Had it not been for the brilliance of Shakhtar’s 19-year-old goalkeeper, Anatoliy Trubin, Lautaro Martinez’s inexplicable miss and the unfortunate placement of the post, then Inter could have managed to grab all three points. Conte used this narrative as he praised the performance of his team whilst also referencing the amount of games played.  Whilst these points can be taken on board, the second half display was disappointing and the lack of creativity seems to be a new constant meaning that the team are left hoping that Romelu Lukaku can make the difference. The creativity issue seems to be laid directly at the feet of the trequartista. Whether this be Nicolo Barella, Christian Eriksen or anyone else, it is seen to be these players who are supposed to unlock the defences even if they sit back deep in numbers as Donetsk did. This is where arguably Conte is missing a trick. Against Shakter  Donetsk, Hakimi was seen on the right (especially in the second half) screaming for the ball and yet receiving it far too little. This was a surprise as his effectiveness had been exhibited against Genoa who at the time were doing exactly the same thing and sitting deep. When Hakimi came on, he was not afraid to terrorise the right hand side meaning that the Genoa players had to overload on him to protect themselves. This allowed Barella space and the Inter goal was forthcoming. To have a full back as one of your most dangerous attacking options is not a new thing, albeit a modern characteristic. Liverpool showed how Andy Robertson and Trent Alexander Arnold could cause chaos for opposition defences last season.