The All Progressives Congress(APC) has lambasted the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) for insinuating residents of Ondo voted for the highest bidder in Saturday’s governorship elections. Results released in 15 local government areas showed Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu taking the lead with a wide margin. Acting National Secretary of the party and Secretary, National Campaign Council for the Ondo election, Mustapha Saliu, who spoke to journalists in Akure, said voters trooped out to vote willingly and not as a result of any inducement. Saliu described the opposition PDP as a bad loser that has lost the ability and capability to win an election in any part of the country. He said many people expected the bandwagon effect to happen to the APC in the Ondo election following the defeat of the party in the September 19 Edo governorship election. According to him: “This election is different from the Edo elections. They were expecting a bandwagon effect. “The Edo election was APC election because the Governor has not spent 1000 hours in the PDP. It was the progressives attitude of Obaseki that made him win. The PDP has lost the ability and capability to win elections anywhere. “There is a difference between campaigns and rallies. They only hold rallies because they don’t have a manifesto. “As an organisation they have moved from barbarism to decadence without passing through any kind of civilisation. They cannot convince people. “The Edo Governor is still a progressive. It is the manifesto and work he did base on progressive ideals that made the Edo people vote for him. It is not about singing in social media. “The electoral body did wonderfully. Materials were available on time. The security agencies did well. They were professional in executing their jobs. “We have bad losers. We lost the election in Edo State and the party congratulated the Governor. That is the spirit of sportsmanship and responsibility to the populace so as not to overheat the polity. The PDP is looking for an opportunity to explain their poor performance.” “It is irresponsible and petty from an organisation that called itself a political party. I see the PDP as a cartel to deceive people and overheat the polity.”