 ABIODUN Jimoh brought me from the beautiful sophisticated streets of Manchester, England to the wilderness in Osogbo, Nigeria to interpret the role of Luwo Gbagida, the first and only Ooni of Ife.” These were the words of Ayobami Ojo aka Oyita after filming on the set of Abiodun Jimoh’s upcoming epic, ‘Luwo Gbagida. Oyita explained that she had to give in her best for the role ‘because I suit his vision for the character he had created.’ Heaping gratitude and praise on Jimoh for the opportunity, Oyita further noted, “He is a pure class at what he does. I have seen only very few filmmakers at his level of ingenuity. His ability to forge magnificent stories and create cinematic excellence by sticking to quality without compromise in an industry where such is scarce sets him aside from the multitude. Such is an unyielding drive for quality! Such professionalism! Thank you for your show of utmost faith in my ability to bring the character Luwo to life in the film, Luwo Gbagida,” she reeled out. Oyita, who combines acting with singing, featured in the upcoming film alongside Olaide Almaroof, Saidi Balogun, Akin Lewis, Mercy Aigbe, Aisha Lawal, Anike Ami, Oyin Adegbenro, Omoyemi Olanrewaju, Tosin Olukoti, Promise Durojaiye, Afolakemi Abdulrahem, Olatokunbo Jolaosho, and Oluwatosin Lawal. Abiodun Jimoh began filming the epic movie in September 2020 in Osogbo, Osun state, and has since completed shooting. Speaking on the choice of Oyita in playing the role of Luwo Gbagida, Jimoh says, “Why Oyita? Luwo Gbadida was described as a naturally beautiful woman, finicky, bold, and authoritative. We looked around for an actress who still maintained all the elements that describe a true African beauty. Rich dark skin, dimples, aesthetic dentition, beautiful voice, and majestic strides of walks. A few actresses came to mind but Ayobami Ojo aka Oyita won it for us.” Jimoh further explained that the decision to film and document the life of Ooni Luwo was orchestrated by phenomenal reign after the demise of Ooni Giesi. “Luwo, the daughter of Otaata from Owode Okeerewe came, saw and conquered as the first and only Ooni of Ife. She contributed immensely to the development of Ile Ife. Her son, Adekola emigrated from Ife to found a new town called Iwo,” Jimoh said. 