SIR: The #ENDSARS orchestra which began with non-violent tunes has metamorphosed and now serenades to macabre tunes of an apocalypse – sorrow, tears and blood! Wanton destruction, pain and death rage on to the morbid fascination of all manner of underground conductors lurking in the shadows! Worrying indicators point to a multiplicity of veiled conductors who have hijacked the #ENDSARS protests with sinister and ambiguous motives, doing their damnedest to skew the narrative, aligning to whatever their agendas are. From interference of authority-sponsored mischief makers, to political, ethno-religious destabilization mongers, to shadowy manipulators lurking within the labyrinths of social media – they have sufficiently given fuel to anarchist agendas. What is now getting clearer by the day and abominably so, is the plethora of ratcheted, orchestrated disinformation employed by these cloaked players to suit their particular narratives. Urgent and critical messages sent through to “organized disbursers” bestriding social media aimed to halt the descent towards anarchy have gone unacknowledged and unheeded – create a handful of bastions as protest bases and desist from sending money and logistics indiscriminately to start bush fires everywhere! These protest zones should be brought to the attention of the authorities while at the same time asking them to provide security. The protest spaces will thus be better coordinated and less susceptible to rogue elements. With better coordination, there will be a halt to blocking of highways and generally antagonizing other members of the public whose support cannot be taken for granted and whose rights to freedom of movement cannot be infringed. Most importantly, these spaces become a moral bubble making any interference of immediate consequence. Lekki toll gate was such a bubble and the shootings there has resonated with consequential reverberations across the world, but for days on end more people have been killed and continue to be killed indiscriminately across the country. One would have thought the essence of the protests was to bring burning issues to the front burner and persevere to see those issues addressed! What is the essence of starting bush fires everywhere and anywhere putting at risk the very people who are in the direst need of succour – opening the door to anarchy! The man who I consider to be the primus inter pares of the #EndSars advocacy, Segun Awosanya (Segalink), who has over the years created a niche for himself as a foremost advocate for police reforms has been vilified and maligned in a well-oiled campaign of usurpation by emergency activists ensconced in the slinking shadows of social media. What the agenda is, I don’t know but I have noticed some wariness from some quarters as the realization sinks in that unwillingly people are being misled. Dubious underground conductors must desist! The flames from the anarchist fires stoked by these conductors will more tellingly ravage the innocents and most vulnerable amongst us, severing them of life, limb and livelihood. Thankfully the “spirit” behind the critical and urgent necessity of #ENDSARS agitations which encapsulates every patriotic Nigerian’s desire to move away from public rot and bad governance cannot be stopped or waylaid. That genie has since left the lamp! For the political class – majorly constituted by idlers, botchers, rudderless and steeped in orgiastic   cupidity – the bells are tolling! If they have not been sufficiently roused out of their cocooned miasma, then they need look no further than the live optics coming off the streets. They should take heed, as if this fester and a general conflagration ensues – there will be no hiding place for them! Surmising – days after incidents of  attacks on private and more worrisome, critical public infrastructure became the trend, these destructions continued unabated. This, in a country already seemingly overwhelmed by pervasive insecurity – no clearer writing need be on the wall. Water is wet, yeah, obviously! The authorities must see their way towards putting a stop to the ongoing binge of slaughter and destruction going on in our streets, but not with the – with immediate effect tone. Empathy, compassion and understanding will serve much better.  The looming spectre of the African proverb that says: “a child who is not embraced by the village will burn it down to feel it’s warmth” – should be averted from becoming reality.