 Given the humongous cost of feeding Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in the country, it is certain that a time will come when the burden would be too much for governments to bear. Nigeria has more than 1.5 million IDPs; with Borno State alone playing host to about 350,000 while 400,000 others have fled to neighbouring countries. The Federal Government, state governments, as well as well-spirited Nigerians, corporate entities and foreign donors, have been taking care of the needs of the IDPs, some of whom have been in the camps for as long as 10 years. That all these people have to be fed daily, sheltered, provided medical care, no matter how rudimentary, as well as other needs will no doubt begin to tell on government resources at some point, and something has to be done to reduce the burden. It seems we have got to that tipping point, with the launching of a new programme, ‘Project Reliance’ by the National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons (NCFRMI), in collaboration with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). As its name implies, the idea is to make the IDPs self-reliant. Senator Basheer Mohammed, NCFRMI’s commissioner disclosed this at the launch of the verification exercise for the project, in Borno. Mohammed said: “In thinking out of the box, the commission came up with an idea that is more viable and dignifying in the long run. As the saying goes, give a man a fish and you will feed him for a day, teach a man to fish and you will feed him for a life time”. Mohammed added, “Project Reliance is tailor-made for Persons of Concern, POCs, in the country and it was designed to restore their means of livelihood by helping them with start-up capitals and starter packs in various trades and businesses of their choice.” We appreciate the government’s efforts to alleviate the suffering of the IDPs. Our fear, however, is whether ‘Project Reliance’ will meet this need. It is true that the NCFRMI and CBN have begun verification of the over 350,000 IDPs in Borno, which has the largest concentration of such persons, but we know from experience that such exercises hardly end, especially when they involve dispensing cash or other material benefits. From the national census to the unending verification of pensioners, the experience is the same. There is nothing to suggest that ‘Project Reliance’ will not go the same way. Lest we forget, even in the IDP camps, there have been several cases of abuse, from rape to pilfering of items meant for the people there by security agents and some of the care-givers. How many of those involved were prosecuted to serve as deterrence to others? More important, we should understand the plight of the IDPs themselves. These are people who have been forced to leave their  natural habitat. So, where will they practice the trade for which they would be assisted to start? In Borno, for instance, where will those of them who are farmers practice farming that they will not be disturbed either by Boko Haram or killer herdsmen? ‘Project Reliance’ looks good. But we have to be careful not to create an army of criminals through it because once the free feeding of the IDPs stops and they are left to their own devices without a conducive atmosphere to exercise their skills, they can only resort to crime, at least to feed. IDPs are not supposed to be displaced for as long as many of the ones we have in the country have been. The idea of IDP camps is to temporarily provide succour to the victims of natural or other disasters. A situation where some of them have been in the camps for a decade is a misnomer. There have been rumours that the terror war  has become intractable because it is big business for some people. This should worry the government. And it should be a good reason for the security agencies to find out those who are profiteering from the misery of others and would therefore want the war to be intractable. For us, the way out is for the government to restrategise on the terror war with a view to getting it behind us as quickly as possible. Intelligence is key here. Anything to the contrary would give the impression of the government abdicating its responsibility or bowing to terror. There is no place like home. Whatever trade the IDPs want to ply can best be done in their natural habitat. But that must also be safe and secure for them to concentrate on whatever they want to do. So, the priority now should be how to return them to their homes as soon as the government is sure it is safe to do so. As for ‘Project Reliance’, we don’t have proof it would not be another project in corruption, no matter how well-intended.