Rivers State Government has begun preparations for a local government election following the reconstitution of the Rivers State Independent Electoral Commission (RSIEC) by Governor Nyesom Wike. Wike, who inaugurated the commission at the weekend in Government House, Port Harcourt urged the electoral body to conduct a credible poll in compliance with the Local Government Laws of the state. A statement signed by Wike’s Special Assistant, Media, Kelvin Ebiri, said the governor lauded eight members of the commission for their successful screening by the Rivers State House of Assembly. Wike urged them to take the responsibility of conducting a credible election from the ward to the local government level, seriously. He explained that the inauguration of the new RSIEC became imperative following the expiration of the tenure of the previous chairman and commissioners in July. He said conducting the election in the country was a herculean task, amid all kinds of threats and blackmail and urged the members of the commission to be committed to discharging their duties. “It is not an easy job to participate in conducting the election, it is quite tasking. It requires every commitment. It is time-consuming, it is energy-sapping. Sometimes in three days, you will not get home,” he said. Wike stressed that members of the commission must detach themselves from social organisations to avoid being accused of partisanship. He said some persons in the state were already plotting to thwart the successful conduct of local government election in Rivers. He said: “So many traps will be set for you so that election will not hold. Like I hear people are plotting that the election will not hold. That is not a problem. You do your own work.” The governor said he had no vested interest in the poll and asked persons willing to contest to canvass for votes. He said any member of the commission indicted through petitions to be a card-carrying member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) would face immediate disqualification. He said: “Elections must be conducted as soon as possible in compliance with provisions of the Local Government Law as amended. I don’t know any of you who have a PDP membership card. If I do know, I will not have appointed you”. The chairman of the commission, Justice George Omereji (rtd) lauded the governor for finding them worthy to be saddled with the responsibility to oversee the conduct of the next local government election and promised not to disappoint the people of the state. Other members of the commission are, Dr. Doris Ruhuoma Chukwu, Mrs. Chioma Ochia, Dr. Hope Barango Tariah, Prof. Lysias D. Gilbert; Barine Akpobari Nwikinanei, Dr. Iyeneomie Tamunoberetonari and Dr. Solomon Egbe.