One hundred and eighty one students and staff of a private boarding school in Lekki, Lagos have tested positive for coronavirus. Lagos Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, said the cases were discovered during surveillance and case investigation in the school. There are 141 students and staff in the school. Giving details of the investigation, Abayomi explained that a 14-year-old SS1 female student fell ill on October 3 and was sent home after receiving first aid at the school. He added the student subsequently tested positive on October 6 in one of the accredited private labs in Lagos. The Commissioner assured Lagosians the government, through the incident commands system, has the situation under control, stressing appropriate steps have been taken to contain the spread and manage the positive cases. He noted all parents have been contacted and counselled via a family zoom call on October 13 to further allay their fears and communication between school authorities and parents continues. The zoom call was attended by Commissioners for Health and Education and all relevant responders and stakeholders. “There is a total lockdown and movement restriction in the school with the Epidemiology and Surveillance Pillar of the EOC and Ibeju-Lekki LGA State Disease Surveillance and Notification Officer (DSNO) reporting at the school daily to conduct further investigation while positive students and staff have been isolated on the premises and given the COVID-19 home-care treatment packs and are being monitored in isolation within the school premises,” Abayomi said. The Commissioner stated the school authorities supported by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education are following the COVID-19 guidelines as set out by the government. According to him: “Students are to be isolated in the school premises and if unwell will be admitted in one of the accredited isolation centers in Lagos. “Students are discouraged from going home to avoid infecting members of their families.”