Governors of the South West region have tasked security agencies to rise up to the occasion to defend the country as the #ENDSARS protests and activities of hoodlums escalated across the country. The Governors who said they were in solidarity with Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo Olu, said the unfortunate occurrences of the past few days in Lagos State have impacted negatively on the whole region. They said it was disquieting that a protest, widely acclaimed as peaceful and purpose-driven, has been hijacked by some people to execute a destructive design. Chairman South West Governor’s Forum and Governor of Ondo State, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, who spoke in a statement issued in Akure said President Mohammadu Buhari and state Governors responded positively to the demands of the #ENDSARS protesters. Governor Akeredolu said the decision reached at the National Economic Council that all state governors should set up Judicial Panel Inquiry has been complied with. Akeredolu noted that recent development showed other reasons for the continued protests, well-coordinated and
funded. He said the spread of fake news and videos, which followed an allegation of shooting by some soldiers with a claimed heavy casualty figure at the Lekki Toll Gate, Victoria Island, Lagos, was responsible for the subsequent loss of lives and property. The Ondo Governor commiserated with His Royal Majesty, Oba of Lagos, Oba Rilwan Akiolu, on what he termed sacrilege committed at his palace and condemned the vile attack on Asiwaju Bola
Ahmed Tinubu as well as destruction of businesses where he has interest. According to him, “This regression into savagery exposes our land as not only vulnerable, but susceptible to vile manipulations by elements keenly anxious to annihilate the South West and destroy our common heritage. “We are deeply concerned with the ease with which public buildings, utilities, police stations and investments of our people have been burnt despite the proximity of security agencies in those areas. We call on the heads of all
security agencies to be alive to their obligations to defend the country. We charge the relevant security agencies to investigate all cases of violence with a view to identifying the culprits. “We are particularly worried that 48 hours, after the unfortunate incident at the Lekki Toll Gate in Lagos by persons adorning military fatigue, there has been no definitive statement from the military authorities on the incident. Our anxiety becomes heightened by the categorical denial of the Governor of Lagos State
concerning the deployment. No Governor has power to authorize deployment of military personnel in Nigeria. “We note, with great relief, the confirmation by the Governor that no fatality was recorded at the Lekki Toll Gate incident based on visits to hospitals,
mortuaries, both private and public. There were no doubt different levels of injury to persons arising from the incident at the Lekki Toll Gate. Consequently,
we insist that full investigation be conducted to ascertain the veracity of the news items liberally circulated by some local media. “It is becoming very clear that the conflagration may have been caused by deliberate deployment “a weapon of mass confusion” apology to Dr. Ope Banwo. The attendant damage was extensive and massive. “The selective application of jungle justice raises suspicion as regards the real motive of the arsonists and vandals. We use this medium to appeal to the youth, especially those of South West extraction, to be circumspect lest they lend themselves to the evil schemes of those who want to destroy our land. “The protests started off as genuine, demanding reforms and restitution. The current happenings across the South West, especially Lagos State, have exposed dubiousness and complicity evidencing malice afore-thought. “We enjoin our youth to rise up to defend our land and people against the diabolical incursions ravaging our space. What do we stand to gain destroying ourselves. We cannot continue to fold our hands and watch our heritage destroyed and our people suffer. We must engage, constructively, all those whose dubious solutions to a social problem is the descent to anarchy. We appeal to them to ‘CALM DOWN’. “We commend the Governor of Lagos State for his administrative acumen. We note his patience and understanding in the face of unwarranted provocation by agents of darkness. We stand, resolutely, with him at this trying period. We should NOT allow brigandage and wanton destruction of lives and property within our walls in the South West. “As we await reports from relevant agencies and action of Government, we appeal to the young ones again to suspend the #ENDSARS protest, remain calm
and vigilant.”