 BAYELSA State Governor Douye Diri has hailed President Muhammadu Buhari for his efforts to reimburse some state governments for funds used in executing federal projects in their states. He spoke when he received members of the National Assembly Joint Committee on Local and Foreign Debts at the Government House in Yenagoa. The governor, represented by his deputy, Senator Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, noted that the gesture would enable state governments to redouble their collaborative efforts in addressing the infrastructural deficits in the country. A statement yesterday by the Senior Special Assistant on Media to the Deputy Governor, Mr Doubara Atasi, said most state governments were discouraged from deploying their scarce resources to fix dilapidated federal projects located in their areas due to Federal Government’s reluctance towards repayment. Speaking to reporters shortly after conducting members of the National Assembly round some federal projects, including the Ekoli Bridge along the Yenagoa-Oporoma Road, he expressed optimism that the inspection visit would facilitate the release of funds owed the state. While thanking the joint committee for the visit, he urged the executive and judicial arms of the government to accord the legislature its pride of place in the scheme of democratic governance. According to the governor, democracy cannot survive without the legislative arm performing its core functions of lawmaking, oversight and representation in society. Diri said: “The National Assembly is a very important institution which has not been given due attention and respect in this country because they see them as new entrants into the Nigerian hemisphere of governance. “But they should not forget that if there is no lawmaking, no oversight and no representation, then there will be no democracy. It is on these three pillars that democracy actually stands. “I believe that the National Assembly is the highest institution that must be respected by all. Having been part of that institution, we will continue to give it respect.