Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq has visited the victim of the violent attack on #EndSARS protesters in Ilorin, the state capital, Sheriff Olawale. The governor described the attack as unfortunate and condemnable. He also offered to foot the hospital bill of the victim. Some suspected cult members were said to have disrupted and attacked EndSARS protesters around the popular General Post Office area in the state capital. Olawale, who has now been stabilised in a hospital in Ilorin after being attacked, told the Governor that his attackers pounced on him when he attempted to save another protester who was being attacked during the protest. AbdulRazaq visited the victim alongside ace musician Yusuf Olusola, known as CDQ, and a few other protesters. The Governor had earlier met with CDQ and other protesters Sunday night where he again condemned the violent attack and appealed for calm while the federal government and various state governments address their grievances. The meeting with CDQ and others followed a violent attack on the #EndSARS protest in which they partook in Ilorin on Sunday. AbdulRazaq said: “We will foot the bills of the injured and we have asked the Police to investigate the attack and anybody involved should be brought to book. You would recall that protest started in Ilorin last Monday and they (protesters) have been coming here since then. I even led them to the Police headquarters on Thursday. So, we welcome peaceful protesters. Not a single person has been touched, molested, or harmed since Monday. We were shocked today to see online that members of your team were harassed and attacked. “What we asked for is a peaceful expression of your demands. And that was what we were happy with since Monday. “When I wasn’t around, my deputy first met with the protesters and promised that I would meet with about ten of them on Tuesday. Unfortunately, there was some sort of disagreement over that especially with regards to who leads the process on their side. Now that you and other leaders have stepped forward in this way, we’ll engage you and your team to make sure that the right thing is done. We are always open to engaging with our youths. “The major complaint in the last protest was about an officer at F Division which the Police Commissioner promised to look into. Some of the protesters also complained about how to get their complaints to the Police. So, we agreed to set up an Ombudsman that will take people’s complaints to the Police. “The protesters have not been violent in the state. But we can’t rule out hijack of the process as it happened today. I don’t know who is responsible for that. For me to have marched with the youths on Monday you should know that we will not be part of any violence. “I urge all of you to protest peacefully. Protest for your right peacefully and the government will meet your demands peacefully. We have seen five-for-five and the federal government is gradually meeting them. Not everything will be addressed in a day. But over a period of time, the federal government will meet them as the Police are under the federal government.”