 Governors of the 19 Northern States on Thursday identified those behind the arson and killings occasioned by the #ENDSARS protests. Rising from an emergency meeting in Kaduna, they said those behind the arson and killings were enemies of Nigeria who want to change government outside the ballot. They also expressed worried on the persistent protests despite the fact that the Federal Government had acceded to all the five-point demand of protesters. Reading the communiqué at the end of the meeting, Chairman of the Forum and Plateau Governor, Simon Lalong, called on all Nigerians to resist the enemies of the nation by supporting President Muhammadu Buhari- led administration and democracy at large. The Northern Governors however called for a Judicial Commission of enquiry to investigate all levels of destruction and killings during the #ENDSARS protests. According to them: “The meeting discussed the various dimensions of #ENDSARS protest across the country. While appreciating the constitutional rights of all citizens to express concern even by way of protest, it however condemned the incessant destruction of lives and properties that ensued in the process. “The Forum regrets the diabolical influencers in form of hooliganism, ethno-religious bigots and even political marauders who are bent on pulling the nation down its knees and pushing for regime change. “The Forum called on all Nigerians to resist these enemies of the nation by supporting Mr. President, the Federal Government and democracy at large. “Forum notes that all these are antics of the enemies of the country who are violently pushing for regime change outside the ballot box. “Forum resolved to further intensify strategic engagements among different levels of stakeholders in their respective states. “The Forum advocates for the Constitution of Judicial Commission of enquiry to investigate all levels of destruction and killings during the #ENDSARS protest. “Calls for greater synergy between the state and the federal government in strengthening the unity, oneness and overall development of the country. “Federal Government to explore the possibility of ending ASUU strike. Most of the youths are idle staying at home. “Forum further restates her commitment in exploring area of reviving the ailing economy of the North with reference to those areas of comparative advantage. “The Forum is in synergy with other Governors in the South-West, South-South and South-East to address these challenges of nationhood headlong. Together we shall keep Nigeria united and indissoluble.”