Tuesday, October 20 will go down in our national history as a day of rage and blood when “security” people fired live bullets at peaceful protesters at the Lekki Toll gate.  This is not to say that the state had not shed blood of innocent citizens in the past during protests. As a matter of fact, it appears to be the tradition and mindset of people in government that the lives of ordinary citizens do not matter as much as security of tenure and political office.  The Lekki Toll gate killing and indeed the killing across the country during the #EndSars protests is unique in every respect, and especially so, because most of the protesters were said to be holding the Nigerian flag, our symbol of freedom and liberty and singing in a carnival like manner, peacefully. It is a time-tested tradition that even an enemy holding a national flag of a country will not be shot at by that country’s army.  Even though the government has tried to deny ordering the shooting, everything about the attack bore the hallmarks and characteristics of the state.  First, the type and calibre of weapons used bore eloquent evidence that it was carried out by security forces of the state.  Secondly, the light at the toll gate was said to have been put off with the possibility that the security cameras were also tampered with. There was blood; this was the blood of innocent Nigerian citizens who were exercising their constitutional rights to peaceful protest demanding for good governance.  The figure of casualties is not the issue. How did we get to this level of outrage that youths hitherto dismissed as just lazy and internet scammers, ‘Yahoo-yahoo Boys’ could muster everything to achieve this objective of demanding for accountability by the political elites? It is true that there is police brutality and repression targeting the youths without concern by government because the young people have been labelled as criminals. Truer still, there is bad governance, corruption, recklessness by government officials and their minions who live in obscene opulence in the midst of grinding poverty. Over the years, the government had found it convenient to deploy brute force and repression to cow citizens and has continued to use coercive force of the state against perceived opposition and dissenting views and honest criticisms.  The evidence of bad governance is everywhere for all to see; unemployment, insecurity and haemorrhage of the economy as elected officials siphon and loot public fund to foreign bank accounts.  The country has been driven to a breaking point thereby driving the youths to the streets spontaneously in response to intolerable violence of the state on the citizenry using the only tool they have, social media employing their handsets. EndSARS protest is simply a metaphor for the demand for good governance and not just the simplistic conclusion by some analysts that it is just to put an end to the blood thirsty and criminal acts of the Police Anti-Crime outfit simpliciter, which the police management has not been able to do anything about due to complicity of the police high command and pervasive corruption.  This is in addition to poor remuneration and low morale and lack of equipment and requisite training. It was the rapacious political elite who instigated the protest through ostentatious lifestyle in the ocean of poverty that is the lot of the people.  Our lawmakers award obscene salaries and allowances to themselves and oppress the citizens, chasing people out of the road with sirens in defiance to basic traffic rules. The youths’ campaign is an idea that has come of age and whether the government is able to kill it temporarily or not, it is going to change our behaviour forever in relation to response to popular demand of the people, the governed.   It is a familiar lesson of history that an idea that has come of age cannot be killed.  The counter revolutionary and reactionary elements with bogus postulations that it is just enough for the youths to limit their demand to EndSARS and nothing more, and government having granted their demand, they should leave the street, is balderdash. In any case, there is nothing wrong in extending the scope of their demand when it is legitimate, and good governance is a genuine demand by the Nigerian youths.   We have spiralling unemployment and recession, yet the lawmakers whose salaries are the highest in the world are not making concession to downsize their salaries. Instead, they conspired to impose electricity and gasoline tariffs on the people who are already choking and suffocating in poverty in the aftermath of the Covid-19 economic burden.  There is insecurity across the length and breadth of the country which members of the security forces prefer to fight in the media; giving figures and statistics of their operational plans to the press before it takes off. The military is supposed to defend the Nigerian constitution, our territorial integrity and protect lives and properties of citizens.  These primary and constitutional duties have become a tall order for them and they are not able to accomplish much due to bad leadership and partisanship. Every honest and patriotic Nigerian will recognize the legitimacy of the revolutionary protest and demand of the Nigerian youths.  Raining lives bullets and hot leads on citizens for exercising their rights is morally reprehensible and those who ordered the killing have lost every legitimacy to be called leaders.  Sadly, the military leadership has demonstrated acute lack of civic training and responsibility. There is blood in the hands of our leaders and at the appropriate time, they are going to account for their stewardship on the day of reckoning which will not be long to come.  The infiltrators, the hoodlums who attack protesters are agents sponsored by government officials out of panic.  Now, Mr President has spoken and not surprisingly, his short speech was bland and patronizing more than ever before and un-empathic to the mood of the nation like a feudal overlord. Sadly, some ethnic jingoists have branded the protest and demand making it a north-south dichotomy using the paint and brush of religion and ethnicity.  Without distinction, the youths in Nigeria suffer the same fate, north, south, east or west and especially in the north who are more deprived due to the feudal system and higher ignorance. It is not good to destroy properties of citizens and government in exercising ones right to protest because protests should be peaceful.  We will still require public funds to fix whatever we destroy.  Going to release inmates in prisons and correctional centres is not right.  It is condemnable and we know those behind it are infiltrators probably sponsored by government officials to find legitimate excuse to shoot and kill citizens in order to intimidate them out of the streets.  Targeting individuals also may be misunderstanding the issues because it is the bad system that made it possible for a few individuals to rob the citizens. But in all, it is a lesson to the ruling class of the direction of future protests that they are not safe if they insist on driving the people to the wall.  They risk everything; just everything and no coercive force of the state will be able to hold the people back.  The state cannot afford to declare war against its citizens and expect to win; it is not winnable. The politicians, traditional rulers and every perceived oppressor are going to lose their privileged positions that they have acquired, not by merit if they do not change.  Stop shooting innocent, peaceful citizens! Have citizens right to demand that they be governed well and demand accountability from their leaders both elected and appointed?  Yes.  Have they right to demand that every Nigerian and ethnic nationalities be treated equally and equitably? Yes.  The fish begins to rotten from the head.  The problem of Nigeria is leadership and it is from the head.    The choice on the table now is for the government to face the reality and embrace comprehensive reform in all ramifications and not piecemeal pacification of the demand of the youths.  We should avoid the drift of leadership to a narrow prism of ethno-religious irredentism.