Nigeria turns 60 as an independent country on Thursday. But it will not attract high-flying celebrations across the states – no thanks to the Coronavirus pandemic and its socio-economic effect. Many state governments and the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) have either cancelled planned ceremonies or are organising low-key activities. This is unlike in 2010 when Nigeria turned 50. The drums were rolled out in pomp and ceremony. However, President Muhammadu Buhari will inspect a military parade at the Eagles Square in Abuja after a 7.00am broadcast. Before Thursday a Nigeria at 60 logo was unveiled by the President. Prayers were offered on Friday at the National Mosque in Abuja and in state capitals. This was followed by a church service at the National Ecumenical Centre on Sunday and in the states. The government said there will be year-long events. Anambra, Osun and Lagos states cancelled Independence Day ceremonies in compliance with COVID-19 protocols. Kaduna, Edo, Oyo and Ogun states said there will be low-key events to mark the day. In Katsina, there were no signs of any preparation for October 1 ceremonies. Officials did not respond to enquiries. The situation was the same in Kwara, Plateau and other states. Lagos State Commissioner for information and Strategy Gbenga Omotoso said Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu directed that the parade and activities that involve the gathering of over 50 people should be cancelled. The government urged residents to observe the COVID-19 protocols, adding that anybody who feels unwell should stay indoors and contact the health authorities. “The police and other security agencies have been directed to ensure that nobody flouts these directives in the interest of all of us, especially now that the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) is warning that a second wave of the deadly disease could occur,” Omotoso said in a statement. Osun State Commissioner for Home Affairs Tajudeen Lawal said the parade cancellation was part of measures to prevent COVID-19 spread. “The State Government of Osun is by this medium informing the general public that this year’s Independence Day celebration will be without the usual fanfare and parades,” he said in a statement. The state urged residents to “take responsibility for their safety” by adhering to COVID-19 prevention protocols. Secretary to the Anambra State Government Prof Solo Chukwulobelu said the “worst is not yet over” with COVID-19. “As a result, the government of Anambra state wishes to inform Ndi Anambra that this year’s Independence Day celebrations will be low key. “The usual match parades and other ceremonies at designated locations in Awka, and the various local government fields in Anambra state, will not hold. “Please continue to follow the COVID-19 safety protocols previously advised,” he said. Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, in a statement by his spokesman, Kunle Somorin, said the activities earlier scheduled to hold at the June 12 Cultural Centre, Kuto, Abeokuta will hold at the Arcade Ground of the State Secretariat, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta. He said admission to the venue will be strictly by invitation in line with COVID-19 protocols. The state imposed a 10 pm to 6 am curfew daily for two days (today and tomorrow). “All forms of gathering in the state, except the announced Independence Day Anniversary programme, are restricted to a maximum of 20 persons from 10.00 pm tonight till 6.00 am on Friday. No procession whatsoever is allowed,” the statement added. Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde will lead the state officials on a special Independence Day anniversary walk. They are expected to take off from the Government Arcade, Agodi Ibadan at 8 am to Agodi Total Garden area. However, there is no arrangement for a parade. There is no indication that Benue State will mark the day at all. No programme was announced to that effect as of the time of filing this report. Governor Samuel Ortom is scheduled to appear on state Television (BNTV) for broadcast at 8 am. The governor, in a statement by the Chief Press Secretary (CPS) Terver Akase, urged Nigerians to uphold the virtues of sincerity, justice and fairness while rejecting impunity to enable the country to realise its potential as a prosperous nation and the true giant of Africa. “We here reaffirm the commitment of the Benue State government to addressing development challenges of the state by developing the agriculture value chain to engage young people in productive ventures,” the statement added. In Kaduna, there was no sign of any event as at last night. Commissioner of Police, Lagos State Hakeem Odumosu has instructed officers and men to disallow any group from staging rallies or protests. Odumosu, in a statement by the Public Relations Officer (PRO) Olumuyiwa Adejobi, said: “We will not allow any gatherings, rallies or protests against the sovereignty of Nigeria in Lagos State as the country marks its 60th Independence anniversary.” “Any youth arrested for such act will be prosecuted. “I urge the general public to be law-abiding and desist from violence and any act that is capable of disrupting the sovereignty of Nigeria.” Inspector General of Police Mohammed Adamu has ordered increased surveillance and security deployments across the country to forestall any breach of the peace and ensure hitch-free celebrations. According to a statement by the Force Public Relations Officer, DCP Frank Mba, the IGP enjoined citizens to go about the celebrations without any fear or apprehension. He said the Commissioners of Police and their supervisory Assistant Inspectors-General of Police have been directed to ensure the safety and security of the public space in their various Areas of Responsibilities (AOR). “The Strategic Officers will strengthen the visibility policing structure and carry-out confidence building patrols particularly around residential areas, major highways and Government/Private infrastructure to prevent/arrest any untoward situation.