 The governorship candidate of the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP) and Deputy Governor of Ondo State, Agboola Ajayi, has told coastal area residents to blame Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu for lack of development in the area. He alleged that the fund meant to develop the oil rich region through the Ondo State Oil and Gas Producing Areas (OSOPADEC) was mismanaged by the governor. Ajayi alleged that one of the reasons he fell out with his boss was the mismanagement of the fund accruing to the state for the development of the coastal areas. The deputy governor alleged at Igbokoda, Agadagba and Igbekebo communities in Ilaje and Eseodo local governments that OSOPADEC fund was in the coffers of few individuals in the state. Ajayi, who challenged Akeredolu to account for billions of Naira that accrued to OSOPADEC, said he would prevent stealing of the commission’s fund if elected as governor. He promised to increase the allocation meant for the development of the area.  Ajayi said the way Akeredolu treated him as his deputy showed that there was nothing special about being a deputy governor, adding that the prompt release of OSOPADEC fund was far better than being a lame duck deputy nominated by the governor’s wife. Said he: “God will not forgive those who steal our fund at OSOPADEC. It is unfortunate that this government cannot point to one project executed with our fund in the last three and a half years. “I am not going to treat my deputy the way Akeredolu treated me. I am the one that said I am not interested in being a deputy governorship candidate. The governor’s wife then nominated Lucky Ayedatiwa as the running mate of her husband.” Ajayi reiterated his stand that he was not going into alliance with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) ahead of the October 10 governorship election. Governor Akeredolu, speaking through his Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Donald Ojogo, said Ajayi was only misinforming the electorate. “We are not surprised he is saying so because it is part of him to misinform, mislead and sustain untruth for his personal ambition. If Governor Akeredolu was mismanaging OSOPADEC funds, it means he (the deputy governor) was more culpable because he was in charge of OSOPADEC. “He ensured his companies got contracts from the agency and collected so much money. Ajayi plundered OSOPADEC.” Akeredolu said Ajayi is a major contractor to OSOPADEC. He challenged Ajayi to provide evidence that funds accrued to OSOPADEC were mismanaged and in the hands of few individuals.  