 There is a huge game to look forward to this weekend, as two of the most successful sides in the English Premier League era go head-to-head at Old Trafford tomorrow. But will Manchester United be able to continue their excellent form in the Champions league against an Arsenal side hoping to bounce back after successive defeats in the league? Both Ole Gunnar Solskjaer and Mikel Arteta have had struggles early in the current season with multiple defeats already. Solskjaer’s side shared the points with Chelsea in their last league game on October 24, though, and are currently 15th in the table with seven points to show from their five matches while Jamie Vardy’s late close-range header was enough to give Leicester City their first win at in 47 years, leaving Arsenal in 10th place on nine points after six rounds of matches. Arsenal legend Ian Wright believes United will pose Arteta’s men an even greater threat than Leicester while speaking with the Premier League Productions. “You look at Manchester United as well who are another team that will want to play on the break,” explained the 53-year-old Wright who scored over hundred goals during his time with the London Gunners. He continued: “You’re going to need to be able to pass through their team, be able to break them down. “Manchester United will do the same thing [as Leicester] and they’ve got even better players going forward, more than just Vardy. “It’s a tough one, we knew Leicester was going to be tough and we know Manchester United is going to be tough. Arsenal is going to have to dig in and find a way of getting results without scoring the perfect goal.” While United go in search of their first home league win of the season at the fourth attempt this weekend, the Gunners arrive having won two and drawn one of their last three games against the Red Devils. Arteta will be looking at becoming just the second manager in Arsenal’s history to win both of their first two games against Manchester United, after Herbert Chapman in 1925-26. The last Gunners manager to win their first away game against the Red Devils was Billy Wright in May 1963. These two teams last locked horns in January where the roles were reversed and Arsenal had the home advantage. On that day, an early goal from Pepe put the Gunners in front. Shortly before the interval, Papa Stathopoulos doubled Arsenal’s lead to make it 2-0. Manchester United made changes in the second-half but even the introduction of Greenwood, Mata and Pereira failed to make a significant impact on the match. Arsenal held onto to claim a comfortable 2-0 victory to make it three games without defeat against the Red Devils. Manchester United will go into this fixture as the heavy favourites, coming come up against Arsenal hot off the heels of one of the best performances of the Ole Gunnar Solskjaer era. United were in pulsating form in mid-week in their Champions League fixture against RB Leipzig, as they ran out 5-0 winners. The result now means that United have beaten the finalists and semi-finalists from last season’s competition. The Red Devils are just two wins from qualification from the next round of the competition. United’s star against Leipzig was Marcus Rashford, who has been hitting all the headlines for his free school meals for children campaign recently. The English striker scored a 20-minute hat-trick against Leipzig, which was also his first in professional football. Mason Greenwood and Anthony Martial also found the net on a terrific night for the Red Devils. The Gunners will still be aiming for a top-four finish this season, but they will need to find some consistency to their results. After a bright start to the season, Arsenal has now lost their last two Premier League games, with these defeats coming against Manchester City and Leicester City. In their last game against the Foxes, he Gunners didn’t create nearly enough chances and they succumbed to defeat late in the second half after Jamie Vardy headed home from close range. The Gunners will be aware that this will be a big fixture for them as a third defeat in a row would signal their worse run of form this calendar year. These two sides, Manchester United and Arsenal, have so often been the two that have been fighting for the Premier League title, but that hasn’t been the case for the past couple of years. Regardless, there is still intensity with this fixture that you don’t normally get with many other games. United will be looking for their 100th ever win against the Gunners this weekend, but they haven’t beaten Arsenal since an FA Cup tie in January 2019. The Gunners have won two of the last three in the league, but United haven’t lost to Arsenal at Old Trafford since September 2006. The last two games at the Theatre of Dreams have ended in score draws. There will be expectancy among united fans that they will be able to continue their momentum after the huge win against Leipzig in midweek. We expect United to get the three points from this game, and there could be another couple of goals in the fixture for Marcus Rashford. Since scoring twice against Arsenal on his Premier League debut in February 2016, Marcus Rashford hasn’t netted in any of his last nine games against them in all competitions, including five starts in this run but his performance against the Germans on Wednesday may just be the catalyst to break his scoring duck against the Gunners. Meanwhile, Arsenal will be hoping scoring talisman Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang would rediscover his scoring form against their bitter rivals. The Gabon international has gone five league matches without a goal for the first time since November 2014, while playing for Borussia Dortmund. During this five-game streak, the striker has attempted only five shots in total and failed to land a shot on target on three occasions. Manchester United have Eric Bailly out  with a muscle injury and Anthony Martial is still suspended as he serves the final match of a three-game ban after being sent off against Tottenham. Jesse Lingard is out for a few weeks through injury. Arsenal will likely be without David Luiz who was injured against Leicester, while they are keeping a close eye on Bukayo Saka who was also hurt against the Foxes. Willian could return for this game, while Shokdran Mustafi is also fit after a lengthy absence. Rob Holding continues to be sidelined and will be out for a few weeks after being injured in the warm up before Arsenal played Man City ten  days ago. But Reiss Nelson  who was probably the pick of the bunch in Arsenal’s Europa League win against Dundalk,  might be given a part to play following few fans calling for him to play against Man United. It would be  an interesting choice for Arteta to make because it would be a huge call to start him again against United, but he also needs to show the squad that impressive performances will be rewarded with chances in the Premier League too. Nelson is still young and he’s not been a regular this season so he might struggle to play another 90 minutes on Sunday, but you have to think he will at least get a place in the squad after a strong showing against Dundalk. Meanwhile, today’s pick of the bunch will see  Premier League champions Liverpool aspire to win their fourth game on the bounce in all competitions when the Reds welcome West Ham United to Anfield for today’s top-flight showdown. The hosts enjoyed a 2-0 victory over FC Midtjylland in the Champions League in midweek, whereas West Ham’s most recent fixture saw them hold Manchester City to a 1-1 draw in the league. Liverpool’s defensive injury crisis worsened again on Tuesday night, but Jurgen Klopp’s men nevertheless managed to march to victory as they took control of their Champions League group. Goals from Diogo Jota and Mohamed Salah saw Liverpool put Midtjylland to the sword in the second round of European fixtures, but the victory was overshadowed by makeshift centre-back Fabinho being forced off through injury in the first half, with Jurgen Klopp facing a dilemma in defence with Virgil van Dijk also out for the long term. However, the champions have made a winning start to life without the influential Dutchman and are now searching for their fourth win on the bounce, although Klopp’s men were made to work for their most recent victory in the Premier League – a narrow 2-1 triumph over a struggling Sheffield United side last weekend. Liverpool’s quest for back-to-back Premier League titles is sure to be significantly hampered should Van Dijk not take to the pitch again this season, but the Reds have made a strong start to proceedings overall and sit second at this early stage – only Merseyside rivals Everton have picked up more points after six matches.