 TELL us about life as a designer? I would say that life as a designer is very promising and very competitive. The profession involves self-satisfaction, especially if you have an impressive portfolio of clothing that you have designed. What were the initial challenges for you? For me, the initial challenges were getting reliable tailors to work with. Unfortunately, many of them were only interested in the pay but they did not have passion for the work. What are some of the things that you have done in the sector? The things that I have done in the sector is creating and showcasing good designs over the years. Our designs are always thorough, down to the last detail. I would also say that designing for the Nigerian people and partaking in exhibitions put together by the designers and other stakeholders in the industry has been exciting. Also designing for a number of Hollywood stars, who were invited to Nigeria and putting on stage at my annual Show at the Eko Hotel and Suites have been really inspiring. Usually, I also invite other designers to come and see the collection. Tell us about the memorable experiences and the things that inspire you? The memorable experience and the things that I have done in the sector are a great motivation for me.  I have showcased in Hollywood and I have showcased the Nigerian fabrics globally. I have created awareness by showcasing all the beautiful fabrics that comes from Nigeria and Africa. And sometimes, we do try to come together to tackle the problems in the sector. You are also known as Olokun Ambassador. Tell us about this and what it means to you? What Olokun Ambassador mean to me is that I represent Olokun on earth, created by the Almighty God. I worship only the Almighty god, who gave me the power to reach out and help people who need my help. Olokun is clean, in and out. As Olokun ambassador, I use this means to spread the news, it is not idol worshipping .It is more of positive spiritual power given to Olokun by the Almighty God. I promote Olokun in a decent way and it’s been there for long. A lot of people are ignorant of the fact that Olokun is a divine angel created by the Almighty God. To them anything that has to do with African culture is bad and evil. It is so sad because they are more interested in borrowed culture and do not promote theirs. I have been promoting the Nigerian culture since 2004. I have a dance group consisting of chanters, singers and a band. I love promoting culture and I am creating positive awareness as an Olokun ambassador, to tell them that Olokun carries positive things. What are some of the other things that occupy your time. Some of the other things that occupy my time as a spiritual person is that I am busy taking care of people. I attend to their spiritual needs. I help them to solve their problems positively through prayers and the almighty God answers my prayers. Women who need children get pregnant. Politician who comes to me for prayer achieve their political ambition and get to the top. Ladies find good spouses, men find good wives, sick people get healed through my prayers, if they have not partaken in any evil. What are some of the changes that you will love to see in the sector? The change that I will like to see in the sector is progress through all the way. I will love to see updated knowledge to satisfy the clients and more visual arts in the sector What is your definition of style? What are some of the items that you treasure most in your wardrobe? My definition of style is the way you carry yourself with a distinctive appearance, very chic. Some of the items that I treasure most in my wardrobe are my unusual designs , my royal robes , my ball gowns, evening wears  and so on. Tell us about your role models and mentors? My role models and mentors are people who see through the young generation and help them climb positively. If you had to advise young people, who want to come into the sector, what would you tell them? I will tell them that they must have passion for designing, have the artistic and creative ability, as well as a great sense of style, which is important. In addition, they must also have a strong competitive spirit and good communication skills. How do you relax? I relax by meditating and when I am not meditating, I listen to R and b music and get connected to the love world. I love gospel music….Oh my God, I love gospel music and I listen to it, all the time. What is your favourite travel destination? I love big cities like Paris, New York, London and Rome. But I really love Bahamas because I get connected to the pure ocean water. What type of books do you like to read? I love to read inspirational books. They inspire me in different ways. What are the things that you won’t do in the name of fashion? In the name of fashion, I won’t do is tattoos and I won’t pierce my body all around. Let’s talk about COVID-19, how have you been keeping safe? I have been keeping safe by staying indoors and wearing my mask if I must go out. Tell us about your beauty regimen. What is the secret of looking good? Because I want to look beautiful, I drink a lot of water. I also use a good moisturizer for my skin everyday and I sleep well. What lessons has life taught you? Life has taught me to be humble and continue to be nice to people. I do not mind what the wicked people do to block my way, especially when it comes to people who need my positive help.