 TWENTY five per cent of jobs are on the line at Chevron Nigeria Limited in what the company yesterday described as a review of  its manpower requirements in the light of the changing business environment. Chevron, in a statement, said the aim was to “have a business that is competitive and have an appropriately sized organisation with improved processes.” This, according to the General Manager Policy, Government and Public Affairs, Esimaje Brikinn, will “increase efficiency and effectiveness, retain value, reduce cost, and generate more revenue for the Federal Government of Nigeria.” Brikinn said the new organisational structures will require approximately 25 per cent reduction in the work force across the various levels of the organisation. He said: “CNL and its affiliates confirm that it is reviewing its manpower requirements in the light of the changing business environment, while continuing to evaluate opportunities to improve capital efficiency and reduce operating costs. “In this process, the company will be streamlining its workforce and improving service delivery and overall performance at all levels. “This will increase efficiency and effectiveness, retain value, reduce cost, and generate more revenue for the Federal Government of Nigeria. “It is important to note that all our employees will retain their employment until the reorganisation process is completed. ”CNL supports the Federal Government in its objectives and efforts to build a prosperous Nigeria. In the area of employment generation, the company has several social investments which are helping to provide employment for thousands of Nigerians,” the statement reads in part. He dismissed speculations that the exercise was meant to outsource jobs done by Nigerians to foreigners, adding that there are no plans to migrate Nigerian jobs outside the country. He said: “We have prospects for our company in Nigeria. However, we must make the necessary adjustments in light of the prevailing business climate; and we need everyone’s support to get through these tough times stronger, more efficient and more profitable in order to sustain the business.” He further stated that CNL is in alignment with its joint venture partners, the NNPC and the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) on the process. “We are actively engaging our workforce to ensure they understand why this is being done. We will continue to consistently engage all relevant stakeholders, including the leadership of the employee unions as we continue this process of business optimization. “At CNL, the welfare and safety of our workforce is one of our highest priorities. “Making changes to the organization is never easy for anyone that will be impacted, but it is necessary to improve our ability to remain competitive in Nigeria. “Reducing the cost and improving the efficiency of our operations is critical to generating more revenues for the Federal Government of Nigeria.” Workers of the oil firm under the auspices of the Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN) immediately kicked against the planned retrenchment. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reported PENGASSAN as saying 600 workers would be laid off. 