 THE defeat of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the September 19 governorship election in Edo State made the party to lost out entirely in the Southsouth region has made APC governors and leaders in the South West to tighten their end ahead of next Saturday election in Ondo State. Already, the APC is approaching the election as a united family, unlike during last year’s general elections when the party was divided. It lost the general elections because some of the members contested on the platform of the Action Alliance. The Ondo APC  lost the presidential election, two senatorial seats and four seats in the House of Representatives. To avoid a repeat of the 2019 debacle, Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN) had immediately after the party primary embarked on reconciliation with aggrieved aspirants. Almost all the aspirants have keyed into his campaign. They have all donated their campaign offices to Akeredolu and the APC. The Unity Forum led by former Deputy Governor, Alhaji Ali Olanusi, also collapsed its structure for Akeredolu. Last week, Chairman, APC National Campaign Council for Ondo State Governorship Election and Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu stormed Ondo to lead the APC campaign to Okitipupa in Ondo South senatorial district. Ondo South is regarded as stronghold of the PDP and Okitipupa is sixth  in the state in terms of voting population. Sanwo-Olu first met with all traditional rulers in Okitipupa local government at the council hall to show his respect for traditional institution as well as explain to them on the need to mobilise their subjects to vote massively for the APC because they could see the performances of Akeredolu. Sanwo-Olu told Okitipupa traditional rulers that the APC need to continue to govern  the state as it has performed creditably well under Akeredolu. According to the Lagos Governor, “There is no gain saying that our candidate has done well in his first term as governor of Ondo State. Without sounding immodest, Governor Akeredolu will defeat his closest rival by more than 30 per cent of the ballots. “The people of Ondo know our party and I daresay that we are the only party they trust to deliver the goods to them. That’s exactly what the government of Rotimi Akeredolu has been doing in the last three and half years. “When they commissioned the Ore flyover I wasn’t there but when I got there recently I was surprised it has been showed that Governor Akeredolu is really working in Ondo state. “Lagos state people are solidly behind Governor Akeredolu, I have come here to campaign for my brother based on the good work he has been doing and we see that he deserve another four years. APC governors in the southwest are solidly behind him.” Speaking on behalf of the traditional rulers in the area, the Abodi of Ikale land, Oba George Faduyile, assured that Governor Akeredolu has no problem as far as people of Ikale are concerned saying “Come October 10 our votes is for you.” Oba Faduyile who charged eligible voters in the state to vote for Governor Akeredolu noting that the APC led government has done well in the last three years. At the well attended campaign rally held at Methodist Primary School, in Okitipupa local government on Monday of the APC such as Jimoh Ibrahim, Chief Olusola Oke, Ifeoluwa Oyedele, Princess Oladunni Odu, Pastor Femi Agagu, Dr Malumi, two members of the APC in the house of Assembly representing Okitipupa amongst others were present at the rally. Sanwo-Olu urged the people to vote massively for the APC even as he assured that ongoing construction of Araromi -Ibeju Lekki road when completed  would reducing travel distance from Ondo to Lagos to 30 minutes. The Lagos state governor said Governor Akeredolu, was not a traitor that would betray confidence of people of the state and would not renege on the promises made. “APC government is planning to work on bridge linking Lagos to Ondo State through Ilaje area. This will make travellers to spend just 30 minutes thereabout to get to Lagos. Akeredolu will not relent on his efforts to transform the state. He has done well and he will do more,” he stated. Akeredolu said plans were to restore power supply to Okitipupa and other parts of the Southern Senatorial districts of the state. He informed the people that an agreement would be signed with Omotosho power plant on Wednesday, September 29, 2020. “Haven’t you seen our schools? We still have much to do. I know your priority here now and it is electricity. When our government came in, there was no electricity supply but we are luck that the Executive Director of the Niger Delta Power Holding, Ife Oyedele is from Ikale and he has been doing something on the electricity. “How electricity suppy will be restored, an agreement with Omotosho Power Plant will be signed tomorrow,” he promised. Oyedele said it was important for the people to vote for the APC so as to continue to put more pressure on the Federal Government to resolve the light issue in the south. “Mimiko was governor for eight years. He didn’t do anything about our light. He neglected us here. Now, he’s taking Agboola around promising what he can’t do. Don’t be deceived! If you bring a Governor that is not in APC, the truth is that he can not help us on our light issue. “APC must remain in power and I can assure you that efforts are on to restore light to our area. Already, some areas have lights. Tomorrow, we shall sign an agreement with Omotosho, so that Omotosho will be supplying light to Ikale land. We shall sign the agreement tomorrow. It’s a federal government job. “The Federal Government is APC. That’s why you must not make a mistake of voting for another party. If another party wins, they can not do anything. We are almost through with this light issue.”Some members of the PDP, ADC and other political parties who defected to the APC were Akinyemi Oladipupo, Sunday Arogbo, Temitope Kolawole (ADC) Tope Adebayo, Akinmoye Oluwanbe, Abiodun Oyekanmi and their numerous supporters. 