Plateau State has again been thrown into another round of bloodbath as gunmen have reportedly killed six persons, including a traditional ruler, in Wereng, Riyom Local Government Area (LGA). The incident happened Monday night.  Less than two weeks ago, the district head of Foron in Barkin Ladi LGA and five other persons, met their death in the hands of hoodlums in Vwang District, Jos South LGA. Governor Simon Lalong has however directed security agencies to apprehend the killers and halt pockets of isolated attacks on innocent people in the state. The Nation gathered that the AK47-wielding gunmen believed to be herders stormed Wereng on Monday night, and started shooting sporadically. Among their victims were a crowned prince and three members of a family. Several other residents of the sleepy community were seriously injured in the attack. An eyewitness, Kim Francis, said: “We first thought they were vigilance group people because they were wearing boots and security kits like community police officials until they started shooting at us. “They kept shooting and picking their expended bullet shells as they moved.” Francis was shot in the leg by the hoodlums while two of his relatives- Mary and Lyop David-were shot in the thighs. The state Commissioner of Police, Edward Egbuka , who confirmed the attack to The Nation, described it as  an “ugly incident.” “In spite of a series of peace meetings we have been holding with the various parties in the communities, we are still experiencing this kind of  ugly incident, thereby truncating the peace in the state,’’ Egbuka said. Governor Lalong, in a statement yesterday by his Director of Press and  Public Affairs, Makut Simon Macham,   described  the attacks as worrisome and unacceptable. He said “We will not allow these ugly incidences to return where hapless and innocent people are murdered in cold blood for no reason. These killers must be fished out at whatever cost and brought to justice. I urge the people to cooperate with the security agencies by providing useful information that will facilitate the arrest of the attackers.”