There was an outpouring of tributes on Tuesday at the National Assembly as senators held a valedictory session for their late colleague, Rose Oko. The session followed a motion by Senate Leader Yahaya Abdullahi (Kebbi North), titled: “That the Senate do now pay tributes in honour of late Senator Oko, Rose Okoji (Cross River North, September 27, 1956 to March 23, 2020).” Apart from the family of the late senator, who witnessed the session, other dignitaries also present included a former Senate President Anyim Pius Anyim; former Cross River State Governor Liyel Imoke and his wife; former Anambra State Governor Peter Obi and the Minister of Women Affairs, Mrs. Pauline Tallen. The late Senator Oko, who represented Cross River North, died in March 2020 at a United Kingdom (UK) medical facility while receiving treatment. She was 63. The late senator was a second term member of the Upper Chamber and served as the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Trade and Investment before her demise. Senators reminisced about the life and times of the late Oko. Senate President Ahmad Lawan described her as a committed, hardworking and profound lawmaker.  “Before we came in, the former Senate President Anyim told me a story about the late Oko and how she supported him. She was everywhere and at any time she felt help was needed. “When I came to the Senate, I was a member of the Senate Committee on Education. So, we had engagements and encounters on the basis of my membership of the committee. “My first impression about her, which lasted throughout from my interactions up to the time she passed on, was that Senator Rose Oko was indeed profound, committed, hardworking and disciplined. “I used to call her the rose of the nation and she would always smile. We are not happy that we lost a colleague, but we should be consoled that she lived an impactful life.” In his lead debate, Senate Leader Abdullahi said: “I feel depressed and disturbed by the death of our dear friend and colleague, a very amiable and dependable member of this Distinguished Senate. But Almighty God knows best.  “When I got to know Rose at the Eighth Senate, she impressed me as a quiet public intellectual full of wisdom, erudite and disciplined with diction worthy of her training in Linguistics. “She was a dependable ally in our quest for worthy causes in plenary and in committees.” Senate Minority Leader Enyinnaya Abaribe (Abia South) said the late Senator Oko’s death “reminds us of our own mortality”. He urged the family to take heart. “She was so gentle; she spoke gently, but she made her point. She was like a mother to all of us. She impacted many lives. As we mourn, we also celebrate the fact that this moment she could also be a point of reference for all of us,” Abaribe said. Deputy Senate Chief Whip Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi described the late Oko as a “very simple, easygoing and peace-loving” personality. He urged the Federal Government to name the Nigeria Diaspora Commission’s headquarters building after her. The senator representing Lagos Central, Oluremi Tinubu, noted that Oko lived a significant and robust life. “She was a pride to the Senate and Nigerian women. Just remember that your mum was one of the greats in Nigeria,” she told her children and family members at the session. Senators who also eulogised Oko included Gershom Bassey, Professor Sandy Onor, Adenigba Fadahunsi, Chukwuka Utazi, Albert Bassey Akpan, Betty Apiafi, Stella Oduah, Ibrahim Gobir, Uche Ekwunife, Rochas Okorocha and Bala Ibn Na’Allah.