 Nigeria LNG (NLNG) yesterday said it has selected Siemens Energy to provide a cryogenic boil-off gas (BOG) compression train for its Bonny Island plant. It said this solution will play a key role in providing additional BOG handling capability and spares for the existing system. The new BOG compression train will be driven by a high-efficiency electric motor and includes two Siemens Energy centrifugal compressors, NLNG said in a statement. Located in Finima, Nigeria, the Bonny Island plant has been in operation since 1999. Siemens’ partnership with NLNG and the Bonny Island project can be traced back over two decades when the plant was first commissioned. Senior Vice President, Industrial Applications Products for Siemens Energy, Arja Talakar, said: “With more than 20 years of safe and reliable production, the NLNG Bonny Island plant is a staple facility in the global LNG industry.  “NLNG’s selection of our cryogenic BOG compression technology is a testament not only to the reliability and performance of our existing equipment at the plant but also to our focused service and ability to meet local content requirements through our in-country presence. The new BOG compression train will contribute to NLNG’s goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions  in a highly sustainable manner.” The order further establishes Siemens Energy’s leading role in LNG boil-off gas compression, the company said, adding that it has a fleet of cryogenic BOG compressors that have accumulated more than 4.2 million hours in service. “Because of current restrictions brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic, all discussions between Siemens Energy and NLNG were conducted remotely via virtual meetings,” said Matthew Russell, Head of LNG Industrial Applications Products for Siemens Energy. “In the end, proactive planning, perseverance, and the long-standing relationship between the companies facilitated seamless communication and smooth negotiations virtually.” Manufacturing, testing, and packaging of the compression train will take place in Duisburg, Germany, with a Free on Board delivery slated for Q4 of 2021. 