 Co-founder Access Bank Plc,  Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede has urged investors and businesses leaders to preserve  the biodiversity of the earth through improved funding. He called on institutions to follow sustainable business practices and public-private partnership. It would recalled that Aig-Imoukhuede led banks and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) in the adoption of the Nigerian Sustainable Banking Principles. He said: “Biodiversity provides annual benefits valued at approximately $120 trillion– more than the entire world economy. In contrast, the global financing needs for achieving the Convention on Biological Diversity is less than one per cent of its annual economic benefits.’’ Speaking at the 75th Session of the United Nations General Assembly, Aig-Imoukhuede appealed to business leaders, investors and heads of government to preserve biodiversity of the planet.  He said there was the need to demonstrate leadership and commitment to improve relationship with nature, adding that appearance of COVID-19 has shown that when we destroy biodiversity, we destroy the system that supports human life. The high-level virtual summit organised by UN General  Assembly President, Volkan Bozkir to support the first UN Summit on Biodiversity at the level of heads of state and government was themed “Urgent action on biodiversity for sustainable development.” Aig-Imoukhuede, who was the the only African non-state participant at the event, said the loss of biodiversity was not only an environmental issue, but also a developmental, economic, health, security and moral one. The UN said biodiversity was declining globally at rates unprecedented in history, with growing impacts on people and the planet and Africa is no exception.  Bringing this home to Africa, Aig-Imoukhuede noted that “Africa is immensely rich in biodiversity and yet by the end of this century, Africa could lose up to 30 percent of its entire animal and plant species as a result of excessive exploitation, unsustainable industrialization, deforestation, pollution and many harmful human activities.” 