Borno State Governor Babagana Zulum on Monday inaugurated and handed over two mega schools in Maiduguri, built within 17 months of his election. The schools are located in the low-income suburbs of Maiduguri and are expected to enrol 3,000 underprivileged pupils within the communities. The three-storey schools were built at Ajilari Cross in Jere, and Abuja-Sheraton in Maisandari wards of Maiduguri metropolitan council, both low-income communities in which many school-aged children are out of school. The capacity of the schools shows that each has 30 classrooms and would accommodate between 40 to 50 pupils at the maximum, meaning about 3,000 pupils in 60 classrooms. The schools have been equipped with desks and chairs, while pupils already admitted were provided free uniforms. “48 teaching and Non-teaching staff that includes the Head-teachers will serve both schools in equal ratio. The schools both have spaces for future expansion”. Zulum said the schools will be managed by the communities but the government will pay the salaries of teachers. “Government is handing over the school to the communities and they are expected to run the school through a Committee within the community, while the government will pay teachers’ salary through the Education Trust Fund every month by way of grants to the school. In addition to this, the government is determined to maintain and sustain the schools in collaboration with community efforts in ways that will serve generations.” Gov. Zulum announced. The governor who was also at the Ajilari community ordered the construction of two standard bore-holes to serve community members around the Mega school. The Nation reports that Governor Zulum had recently approved the recruitment of over 700 teachers for secondary schools and promised to employ hundreds for primary schools when ongoing verification and standardisation of teachers is completed. He moved to Moromoro, where he commissioned a road and drainage project as well as ordered the dualisation of the 10-km Customs/Muna Garage road, a busy commercial road which links Mafa-Dikwa area.