 FORMER governorship candidate of the All Progressives  Grand Alliance(APGA) in Imo State,  Chief Martins Agbaso, on Friday led 4,000 members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) from Owerri zone to Governor Hope Uzodimma. The event which took place at the Government House, Owerri, saw  top stalwarts of the PDP denouncing  their membership of the party  before the governor. Agbaso, while presenting the defectors to the governor also assured that more will soon join the fray of defectors to the APC, just as he informed that a mega reception by the people of Owerri zone to welcome and congratulate Governor Uzodimma as the new governor of the state was in the pipeline. “Politics is not a business for a single person. Once we were treated like lepers but today we can see the light at the end of the tunnel with  the coming of  Governor Uzodimma. He has no business in impressing me but what he has done since he assumed duty as governor is commendable. “What he will do in Imo State  will shock people. This is a man I know is a power house.  Ndi Owerri will  follow him.   We will keep fishing for good men in Owerri to support him,” Agbaso said. A  former PDP chieftain,  Harry Njoku,  thanked the governor for giving him and his supporters the opportunity to join the APC. “I have come to thank you for everything you have done in my life. We have pledged to join hands with you to move our dear state forward to recover the state from decay. Earlier,  the APC state Chairman,  Marcillius Nlemigbo,  told the audience that journey to bring people from other political parties had started with the opposition now interested in the achievements of Governor Uzodimma. “APC is not just a political party, it is now a movement in Imo  State. ” Governor Uzodimma while thanking his visitors expressed happiness that all the big names in politics from Owerri zone are now returning to the APC, maintaining  that it is time to bring back the state from its lost glory. He said:  “I’m happy to see such the calibre of people returning to our party, APC. These are the best no doubt from Owerri, with your collective efforts, we shall rescue Imo and bring it back to where it used to be.”