Every successful person has failed many times. They finally succeeded because they stumbled on how to handle failures. Success is relative. It is also measured in stages. You don’t get to a destination of success; it is a journey. Here are 10 ways to handle failures: · Forgive yourself Forgiveness is an all-inclusive action you display towards others and yourself. There is an inner critic in every man so, it’s understandable if you recognize it but don’t allow it to abuse you. Do not ponder on how terrible you have been. Learn from it by all means but do not incorporate self loathe. It’s a good thing that you’ve recognized your mistakes but don’t make a tent there. Like the saying goes “to err is human but to forgive is divine”. Take hold of the divinity in you and forgive yourself. · Don’t regret, feel guilty or worry about life People think worrying about life makes them more responsible than those who don’t. No, it doesn’t. They guilt-trip themselves, ponder on their errors, dwell in regrets about past failures. They do all of these instead of focusing on what next. Worry is something that is learned, people can unlearn it. Worry, regret and guilt change nothing. If at all, it amounts to more complications, like making the wrong decisions or taking the wrong steps, because they were made out of fear. It also takes away your peace of mind. By all means, be responsible for your life, learn from your mistakes and experiences, be more deliberate and determined about retracing your steps but don’t dwell in the past. Get up! Move! · Be patient, live in the now Take a deep breath, enjoy the moment, dance in the rain. Dancing in the rain here is a figurative term. It means to be happy irrespective of irregularities. Be patient with yourself; you might not have everything figured out just yet but calm down. Take a deep breath, rest. You get to make intricate decisions when your mind is at peace. · Affirm yourself daily Affirmations can seem to be one of the most ridiculous things for some people because it doesn’t just reflect their present reality. Research has shown that speaking to yourself in the third person singular can have more effect on you than you can imagine. · Love yourself fiercely Truth be told you won’t find fulfillment or cure loneliness by the amount of money you have. Money is good, fantastic, amazing. Money can be used to solve most of the world’s issues. We all need money. But money can be ephemeral. It actually does not guarantee true happiness. So does relationships. It can be a relationship with an animate or inanimate character. · Don’t compare yourself Run your own race. Focus on your own journey. It is so good to look at where our contemporaries are and wish we have gotten to that stage ourselves. That’s good it shows we really want to be successful. But just focusing on their achievements and refusing to learn how they got there can have adverse effects. · Invest in self-development and awareness To be passionate about your own field, you have to know what you want or what you are meant to be doing. Discover that. If you have, invest in materials that will bring out the “you” hiding. If you are dispassionate about reading, get an audiobook. Really get to spend some time with them. Make notes if possible. You can also make realistic resolutions, the ones you know you can follow through till the end. · Be happy with seemingly small wins Decorate yourself with a badge each time you succeeded in something no matter how little. For every successful step, celebrate it. Give yourself a star. That doesn’t mean you should become all over yourself in your head. It should be that you are grateful for each little stair of success you have stepped on. Make a table for your success and badge yourself that. · When you fall, you get up! Of cause, you lose some but you’ve not lost. You are always a winner. Don’t stay too long in the dust wishing you had done something a little different. It’s gone! Learn from that. Be strong enough to pull through. Cry if you need to. Allow the sad emotion to play its role. Don’t numb it, take a short break if you need to but make up your mind to continue moving even with these uncomfortable emotions hanging in you. You have got this! · Know your tribe Of course, your tribe doesn’t mean people of the same ethnicity or dialect as you, it means, people with the same vision, drive, or purpose as you. Keep them close. Make the right connection. Connect with people who have the same focus and drive as you.