President Muhmmadu Buhari promised on Monday that the disbandment of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) was the first step of the action. He assured Nigerians of a wholesome reform of the force. The President, who spoke at the State House during the launch of the Presidential Youth Empowerment Scheme (P-YES), said he had ordered a probe of the circumstances surrounding the killing of Isiaka Jimoh, of one of the #EndSARS protesters, who was shot dead in Ogbomosho, Oyo State on Saturday. The President also directed that all those responsible for misconduct or wrongful acts be brought to justice. He reminded Nigerians that the police is made up of people carrying out their duties diligently and warned that the few bad should not be allowed to tarnish the reputation of the organisation. ‘’I will like to use this opportunity to say a word on the recent genuine concerns and agitations by Nigerians about the excessive use of force and in some cases extra-judicial killings and wrongful conduct of the men of the Nigerian Police Force. ‘’The disbanding of SARS is only the first step in our commitment to extensive police reforms in order to ensure that the primary duty of the police and other law enforcement agencies remains the protection of lives and livelihood of our people. ‘’We will also ensure that all those responsible for misconduct or wrongful acts are brought to justice. ‘’We deeply regret the loss of life of the young man in Oyo State during the recent demonstrations. I have directed that the circumstances of his death should be thoroughly investigated. Also speaking to State House Correspondents separately, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, assured those still continuing with the protests, after the disbandment order had been given, that government is committed to the reform process. According to him, the next step would be to ensure that whatever unit would be structured to replace the disbanded SARS would meet the tenets of the Rule of Law. “I think the clear message is that there is a government commitment to ensuring that the process of reforms, those who have committed wrongful acts are duly investigated and prosecuted. And that whatever replaces SARS is something that is acceptable, first of all compliance with all of the tenets of the rule of law. And that human right rights… “I think these are deep issues that we are all concerned about, I don’t think one person is more concerned than others. I have also been involved in many cases of many young people trying to resolved this kinds of conflicts that have been reported. I think it is a good moment for the police force and for all of us to try and reform the police. We are all committed to it”, he said.