The Commissioner-Designate for Education, Science, and Technology in Ogun State, Prof. Samson Adeola Odedina, has assured of the repositioning of the state education system. Odedina gave the assurance during a  visit to Moshood Abiola Polytechnic, Abeokuta (MAPOLY) last week to assess the  roads and other infrastructural facilities in the institution. He said the visit followed the decision of the state educational stakeholders meeting held recently with Governor Dapo Abiodun to strengthen innovations that could help institutions in the state in revenue generation and self-dependence. The commissioner, who was accompanied by the Special Adviser to the Governor on Works and Infrastructure in the state, Akeem Adesina and other   directors, lauded the institution  on the ongoing projects in the institution despite challenges. Speaking with Campuslife during the visit, Odedina stated that MAPOLY and other institutions in the state will begin to experience a turn around. “It’s total rejuvenation of the education system, because Ogun State is the headquarters of education in Nigeria and we cannot afford to be at the background. “We have to make sure there’s a total turn around starting with  curriculum rejuvenation,then we will  also look at infrastructural development. “I have seen the roads, and we’re possibly going to look at government intervention in form of grading and so on. We are also going to look at the possibility of government interventions in some of the buildings as well.” Odedina noted that virtual learning would be given more attention. He added that technology would be integrated into teaching and learning in the state.  “We are going to integrate technology into teaching and learning. The advent of COVID-19 has made that more popular.Virtual learning will be given more attention and we are going to encourage each institution  to come up with innovations that can assist them even in revenue generation and we are going to involve alumni and  philanthropists to help us develop our institutions,” he said. The commissioner reiterated that students’ and staff welfare would be  prioritised, adding that restiveness  in institutions across the state would be tackled. Odedina also expressed optimism that the state would  become a reference point for education in the country soon. “We have started and within a very short period of time Ogun State will be a reference point for education in the country.” Also, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Works and Infrastructure in the state, Akeem Adesina said  work would  begin on the polytechnic roads soon. “You’ll begin to see progress on your roads and infrastructure generally,” he said. The Acting Rector of the polytechnic, Dr. Adeoye Odedeji, thanked the governor for the quick response to the polytechnic’s request. “One of the things we discussed with the commissioner-designate is that there must be rapid response to the needs  of the students and that’s what the governor has demonstrated,” he said.