 Two volunteer teachers recruited by teacher-supply organisation, Teach For Nigeria (TFN), to teach in underserved communities for a two-year period have won the Most Outstanding Lockdown Teacher Competition. Gideon Ogungeyimi, a 2018 TFN alumnus and Precious Adegunle, a 2019 Fellow won in the contest organised by Educational Aid Global Initiative (Edu-Aid) of the Covenant Christian Centre. Ogungeyimi won N500,000, while Precious got N300,000 from the competition organised to reward teachers for their selflessness and innovative  efforts to help children learn while schools were shut. The teachers were required to submit a one-minute video detailing the work they did; these submissions were independently assessed to determine the winners. To win the N500,000, Gideon created and printed worksheets in English and Mathematics and delivered to his pupils’homes as well as launched ‘Project Feed100’ with two other Fellows to provide financial palliatives to 100 needy families.  On her part, Precious raised funds to purchase tablets for her pupils and began a project to digitise the Nigerian curriculum in indigenous languages, particularly Yoruba. She preinstalled the educational content and games, movies, books and worksheets in the tablets which she distributed to her pupils for free. CEO, Teach For Nigeria, Folawe Omikunle, said the winners demonstrated the leadership qualities that TFN imbues in its fellows. She said: “We are tremendously proud to see not only the winner of this contest emerge from Teach For Nigeria, but also the 1st runner up. This is evident of the leadership quality that exists in our teacher leaders. The pandemic widened the gap of inequity, and as leaders who understand the challenges in underserved schools, our teacher leaders did not only identify the challenges, but they also displayed a great sense of responsibility and urgency  to ensure that learning didn’t stop despite the school closure. We are inspired to see the possibilities of the future of education beyond the classrooms within low-income communities.”