No fewer than two persons died in multiple motor accidents which occurred along the Bauchi-Jos road. Several others were also left injured in the crash, which involved about six vehicles within the last 24 hours. The first accident, which occurred on Monday involved four vehicles at Buzaye village, 16km away from Bauchi. Our correspondent gathered the accident was caused by a tanker conveying PMS to Bauchi which went up in flames. The fire was said to have been ignited by another vehicle, which had an electrical fault while on motion. The resulting fire spread to another vehicle, a container-laden trailer also transporting some goods to Bauchi. The vehicle was completely burnt beyond recognition as well as a J5 bus which later ran into the accident and immediately went up in flames. The fourth vehicle, a single loader lorry, rammed into the burning vehicles while trying to avoid the vehicles but lost control and veered off the road into the bush. It was also gathered it took the combined efforts of men of the State Fire Service and other people around the scene to put the fire under control while those injured were immediately rushed to the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University Teaching Hospital (ATBUTH), Bauchi for treatment. Barely 24 hours after, another accident involving a commercial Opel Vectra and Toyota Sienna bus with registration number Abuja: KWL-776AZ occurred on Tuesday. It occurred few kilometres away from Buzaye, the scene of the first accident and claimed two lives. Other passengers also got injured in the accident. A  Special Marshall told The Nation the accident occurred when the two vehicles moving on to the opposite direction collided at Julius Berger yard in Miri village along the Bauchi – Jos road on Tuesday. She narrated that the driver of the Opel Vectra and one other passenger died on the spot while others were injured just as their luggage were seen scattered by the roadside. Confirming the Tuesday accidents to our Correspondent, the Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Bauchi Sector Command, Yusuf Abdullahi, said details of the cause of the accident were still sketchy. “Yes, there was an accident but I don’t have the full details. As I speak with you, our men are right there on a rescue operation, they are yet to be back, so I have not yet been brief,” he said.