Ondo State Governor and All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate Oluwarotimi Akeredolu and his People’s Democratic Party (PDP) challenger Eyitayo Jegede on Wednesday clashed on the performance of the governor and the school fees. The duo spoke at the debate organized by Channels Television last night. A drama ensued when Akeredolu asked Jegede whether he had not seen any developmental projects. “You have toured the state, can you tell this gathering that you haven’t seen developmental projects? Be truthful,” the governor asked. Jegede responded that he didn’t see any. “I have not seen good governance anywhere even in Akure, the state capital. I will do better than you sir in office.” Akeredolu fired back, saying “I tarred the road leading to your house. That road was left untarred by the administration you participated in for eight years.” Not ready to accept defeat, Jegede told the governor: “you tarred the road because your special adviser and a permanent secretary are living in the area. The Ondo people need fresh ideas of running a government and I am ready to open the government to the people.” The governor said higher institution in Ondo state were the cheapest in the of Southwest. According to him, the responsibility of running three universities in Ondo state was enormous, saying provision of good education was better than half-baked education. The duo, however, agreed that having a multi-level security commands was the best way for curb criminal activities. Akeredolu said a single command of police was not enough to secure the lives and property of the people. “That is why we created the Amotekun Security Outfit to complement the effort of the police and other security agencies. Amotekun can never fail because it is a well thought-out idea and an outcome of a security summit. Since its creation, Amotekun has done well in checkmating the nefarious activities of kidnappers and some herdsmen,” he said. Jegede agreed that the Amotekun outfit was a good initiative, but it should rise above politics to achieve its goal. “If the Amotekun outfit is not properly managed, it would not serve the purpose of its creation,” he said. He called for a proper policy to strengthen the security architecture of the state. According to him, there should be a police post in all flashpoints in the state while Army barracks should be built in strategic areas. Governor Akeredolu and Jegede also disagreed on how best to tap the opportunities inherent in Cocoa, Bitumen and tax payment.