All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has described the re-election of Ondo State Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu as well-deserved. He said the outcome of the Ondo governorship poll for the APC attested to what unity can do. In a congratulatory message to the governor, Asiwaju Tinubu said the victory testified to Akeredolu’s performance in the Sunshine State, urging him to see the renewal of the mandate through popular ballot as a call to do more. The message reads: “This victory in a peaceful, free, and fair process is a testament to Governor Akeredolu’s sterling first term performance and an affirmation of the confidence reposed in him by the people of Ondo. “In his first term, Governor Akeredolu erected important structures, embarked upon road infrastructure and focused on projects like the Ore Industrial Hub in a bid to create empowerment and employment for the people. “It is now incumbent on him to repay the people’s faith by building on the achievements of his first term and bringing further tangible improvement to the lives of the people of his state. I also congratulate President Muhammadu Buhari, our party’s governors and all the members of the APC in Ondo State and beyond. I wish, also, to congratulate Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the Chairman of our party’s National Campaign Council for the Ondo election, for his excellent work in support of his brother-governor’s campaign. “Governor Akeredolu’s re-election has demonstrated what a united and cooperative APC can do when working together to advance our party’s progressive agenda. “The reconciliation we spearheaded ensured we had a united APC, which worked towards achieving victory in the election. I would be remiss if I fail to thank Baba Ali Olanusi and other members of the now defunct Unity Forum for their commitment to the party and for so firmly believing in what we stand for. “I also commend all the governorship aspirants who came to endorse Governor Akeredolu for a second term including Chief Olusola Oke, Mr. Isaac Kekemeke, Dr. Segun Abraham, Chief Ifeoluwa Oyedele, Chief Olubukola Adetula, Jimi Odimayo, Ambassador Olusola Iji, Mr. Olaide Owolabi Adelami, Mrs. Jumoke Anifowose and Mr. Nat Adojutelegan. I elected to mention them by name for they deserve our accolades and even more. “Same with former Secretary to the State Government, Hon. Ifedayo Sunday Abegunde aka Abena, who came back to us and worked assiduously for Governor Akeredolu’s re-election. We cannot thank them enough. The battle is not over with the re-election of Governor Akeredolu. We must strive to establish a progressive government where we are capable of doing so. “I urge Governor Akeredolu to be magnanimous in victory and extend his hand of fellowship to those who contested against him. I commend all the parties and candidates that took part in the election particularly the PDP and ZLP candidates for putting up a spirited fight in the spirit of democracy. With the election over, it is now time to rally round the governor to move the state forward towards its full potential.”