The decomposed body of a senior staff of the Federal University of Lafia (FULafia) in Nasarawa State, Mrs. Angelina Tyem, was on Sunday discovered in her private apartment in Lafia four days after she disappeared. Tyem is a senior administrative officer of the varsity and a Women Leader of the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU), FULafia Chapter. She had contested for Akwanga North constituency in the 2019 General elections under the platform of NNPP. The Nation gathered the decayed body of the deceased was found by neighbours in her apartment situated in Sabon Pegi area of Lafia town, in the early hours of Sunday. The busy Sabon Pegi area was thrown into chaos as scores of persons thronged to apartment of the deceased to catch a glimpse of the decomposed body. Security operatives, comprising men of the police, were seen in the area to maintain law and order. Sources said the deceased was murdered by hired assassins. It was further gathered few weeks ago, the late Tyem survived an accident along Akwanga-Jos road while assailants invaded her apartment in Lafia and carted away all her belongings. A resident of the area, who identified himself simply as Abu, told our correspondent on Sunday “the dead body of the deceased was badly mutilated, showing she was stabbed by assassins. “The neighbours told us they had not seen her for the past four days and assumed she travelled till her dead body was found in her room.” A colleague of the deceased, Ibrahim Shuabu, said: “I just confirmed now. That for four days, they just discovered her dead body in her apartment this morning, this is really sad.” Chairman of SSANU, Federal University of Lafia Chapter, Monday Seriki, who visited the scene, alleged the deceased was murdered and her car and phones were not found in the apartment. “I was called this morning around 9am that our women leader was found dead in her room and that the neighbours discovered her dead body. That because she was meant to travel last Wednesday and so the neighbours thought she had travelled. “But somehow they noticed that the house was oozing with a bad stench and one of the neighbours while searching found that her kitchen door from the backyard was widely opened and her dead body was found in the house. “We went there in company of the police, I even have the pictures. We went inside the house and noticed that she was stabbed. She was murdered four days ago by unknown persons. “Nobody knows the whereabouts of her car and her phones. Right now, her body was conveyed by the University Ambulance to Sandaji Mortuary in Lafia,” Seriki narrated. Nasarawa Police Public Relation Officer ASP Ramhan Nansel, confirmed the incident to The Nation. He simply said: “I am yet to get the full briefs. I will get back to you.”