The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has commended President Muhammadu Buhari’s resolve to address revenue leakages and redirect scarce resources to the poor and vulnerable in the 2021 appropriation bill presented to the National Assembly on Thursday. Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the party, Yekini Nabena in a statement in Abuja welcomed the presentation of the proposed 2021 budget tagged ‘Budget of Economic Recovery and Resilience’ to the Joint Session of the National Assembly. The party urged the legislative arm to accord the appropriation bill speedy consideration and passage to enable it meet the take- off time of the next financial year. The statement reads: “All Progressives Congress (APC) welcomes President Muhammadu Buhari’s presentation of the proposed 2021 National Budget aptly tagged ‘Budget of Economic Recovery and Resilience’ to a Joint Session of the 9th National Assembly on Thursday. “We are confident that the 9th National Assembly will continue and consolidate its patriotic disposition by speedily considering and passing the 2021 Appropriation Bill into law to enable implementation by 1st January 2021, as canvassed by the President. “The President Buhari administration is not oblivious of the perseverance and continued support Nigerians have displayed in these difficult times brought by the outbreak of the global COVID-19 pandemic and the crash in oil prices which affected national revenue and individual livelihoods. “Commendably, this government has not been found wanting in its resolve to cushion the biting effects on the citizenry while delivering on key policies, programmes and critical infrastructure projects, notably our ongoing national railway projects, the second Niger Bridge, among other critical projects that positively impacts our national life. “In the face of dwindling national resources, President Buhari in his 2021 budget presentation speech has committed to intensify measures to address revenue leakages and redirect scarce resources to the poor and vulnerable through deregulation of the price of petroleum products; continued verification exercise with the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS) and implementation of service-based electricity tariffs.” The party appealed to striking university lecturers to show patriotism by joining the IPPIS scheme and end the industrial action to enable students resume lectures. *We particularly urge members of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) to show patriotism by supporting government’s intentions on the IPPIS, which is to streamline and check incidence of payments to non-existent personnel and unauthorised allowances by enrolling in the IPPIS, ending the ongoing strike and enable our students to resume school,” the party appealed.