Warring factions in several state chapters of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) have sheathed their swords, Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni hinted on Tuesday. Buni, who is the Chairman of the Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee (CENCPC) of the party, said his committee successfully resolved intra-party crisis in 11 states in the last three months. The APC chieftain spoke in Abuja while inaugurating the party’s 12-man Reconciliation and Election Committee for Bayelsa Central and West Senatorial districts, led by Gombe State Governor Mohammad Inuwa Yahaya. Buni, who was represented by the committee’s Secretary, Senator James Akpanndoedehe, said the committee also attracted some highly placed members of the opposition into the ruling party. “You will all recall the ugly and unfortunate incidents that bedeviled our party, which threatened its existence and resulted in the dissolution of the National Working Committee (NWC) and the emergence of the Caretaker/Extraordinary National Convention Committee, which I am opportune to chair. “I am glad to state that the committee, upon assumption of office, engaged in genuine reconciliation to rebuild people’s confidence, trust and hope in the party. “Let me say with all sense of appreciation and fulfilment that the committee had, in the last three months, reconciled life-threatening challenges for the party in 11 states across the country. “Today, we proudly parade political heavyweights, like former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, former PDP National Chairman, Senator Barnabas Gemade, several members of the National Assembly, as well as Chief Jimoh Ibrahim, former Head of Service of the Federation, Mr. Danladi Kifasi, Senator Isa Hamma Misau, Alhaji Salisu Takai and several others, while many others have also indicated interests to join the party.” Admonishing the committee members, Buni said: “Your assignment falls within the mandate of providing genuine reconciliation to give every party member in Bayelsa State a true sense of belonging. You should, therefore, be just, fair, transparent and objective in executing your assignment. We should always place party interests over and above personal interests and carry everyone on board for us to succeed. “Similarly, your committee is mandated to mobilise, strategise and deliver Bayelsa Central and West Senatorial districts to the party. Our success in this election is very crucial and strategic because of the need to have more supporting hands in the National Assembly for improved collaboration and synergy with President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration to successfully execute its policies and programmes to improve the lives of Nigerians.” The committee members include Senator Ovie Omo-Agege (Vice Chairman), Senator Abdullahi Sahabi,  Senator Ali Ndume, Senator Uba Sani, Ambassador Fatima Goni, Senator Chris Adegije, Alhaji Yusuf O. Ocholi, Chief Enyi o. Enyi, Pearl Ekebong Inwang and Ekemini Cletus Udoh, its Secretary.