  Developing and emerging economies have been listed as the highest payers of corporate taxes, report by global accountancy software firm, QuickBooks has shown. It said while corporation tax rates are influenced by the country’s definition, there’s clearly a pattern with developing countries and emerging economies paying higher rates to sustain the country. Being the poorest continent in the world, Africa unsurprisingly has the highest average corporation tax at 28.45 per cent. With the highest in this data being Zambia at 35 per cent and Nigeria 30 per cent, the lowest being Libya and Madagascar at 20 per cent, South Africa stands roughly in the middle at 28 per cent, slightly above average for Africa overall. It said South Africa is one of Africa’s largest economies, with 54 diverse countries in terms of political stability, development, growth, and population. As South Africa has been a relatively slow growth area over the years, corporation tax dropped from 34.55 per cent in 2012 to the current rate – but was this effective? GDP in South Africa has fluctuated quite dramatically since the 1960s. The top five richest countries in the world’s corporation tax are relatively varied, with Luxemburg standing at 27.08 per cent, Norway at 22 per cent, Iceland at 20 per cent, Switzerland at 18 per cent and Ireland at 12.5 per cent. It said it would appear that some countries’ cultures factor into how much tax they pay. For example,  Scandinavian countries are proud to pay higher taxes to contribute to social welfare. On average, Africa has the highest corporation tax rate throughout the world’s continents at 28.45 per cent and South America, the second highest with an average rate of 27.63 per cent. However, Europe stands at the lowest rate of 20.27 per cent. The report said Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) explained that corporation tax plays a key part in government revenue. This is particularly true in developing countries, despite the global trend of falling rates since the 1980s. Let’s take a closer look at two continents, South America and Africa, paying the highest corporation tax rates in the world. South America has most countries in highest corporation tax top 10. According to data analysed, Brazil and Venezuela have the highest corporation tax at 34 per cent, followed by Colombia at 33 per cent, and Argentina at 30 per cent, making South America the continent with the most countries in the top 10 who pay the highest corporation tax. It is unclear whether South America, as an emerging continent, is charging higher taxes in order to raise government revenue or to benefit from businesses that are looking to expand internationally and enter new markets. According to research, South America is becoming a popular choice for business to enter, with strong trade links and an advantageous geographic location. Indeed, South America is a large continent where some countries are business friendly and others are harder to penetrate. 