  Governor Rotimi Akeredolu is not a typical politician. He is absolutely predictable. He does not fight silently. He likes calling a spade a spade. He is rigid. A technocrat, he is not used to wheeling and dealings that characterise politics. But, he is focused. He also means well for his state. Despite his limitations, he has presided over a prudent administration. He has many achievements to his credit. Attention was not on these feats, but on his weaknesses as a politician, thereby fuelling the insinuations that he has not performed. During the campaigns, however, he tendered his stewardship; his infrastructure battles, the conducive environment he provides for investment to thrive and his giant stride in security, which led to the setting up of Amotekun. Ahead of the poll, he reaped the gains of reconciliation that had eluded the crisis-ridden APC chapter. He is also popular at home, making the 35, 000 votes he garnered at Owo, his hometown, to neutralise the threat posed by Akure’s 47,000 votes because he also got 17,000 votes from the state capital, compared to the 5,000 votes Jegede got from Owo. Akeredolu became lean in the course of the campaigns. He left nothing to chance. The governor never slept on guard. Four years ago, Lucky Ayedatiwa’s senatorial ambition hit the rock. The attention of the people of the South has shifted from Ajayi to the incoming number two indigene, who is expected to be totally loyal to his boss. His choice by Akeredolu was strategic. Not only is he perceived to be loyal, he cannot also be dismissed with a wave of the hand in the politics of the South, where, more than before, he will start playing more leadership roles after his inauguration. The people of Ondo State voted wisely for continuity. They shunned thuggery and violence. Ballot snatching was absent. They also turned out to exercise their franchise.  The greatest tribute Akeredolu can pay to them is to sustain the working pact and partnership by giving them a new lease of life through the provision of more dividends of democracy. Unlike one of his predecessors who perceived election as a war; a do-or-die affair; President Muhammadu Buhari has set a standard of electoral sanity by mobilising citizens, through personal example, to defend the sanctity of the ballot box. The President has always admonished stakeholders to play by the rules. Although he is the leader of the ruling party, he has never oppressed the opposition, but encourages them to participate creatively in governance by offering constructive criticisms. His position on free and fair election is a worthy contribution to the consolidation of democracy in Nigeria. The strategy of the APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, worked in Ondo. Miffed by the protracted crisis that hit the chapter in Ondo, he rose to the occasion. The former Lagos governor canvassed the options of party unity, oneness, cohesion and peace, urging governorship aspirants to elevate collective interest over personal agenda. He also brokered peace between the governor and aggrieved chieftains who belonged to the Unity Forum, advising them to sheathe their swords. A united APC in Ondo became a formidable platform that withstood the opposition’s arrows, threats and onslaught. Tinubu rallied party chieftains to see the bigger picture. As peace returned to the fold, there was team work and a greater determination to collectively survive. The result was victory on poll day. The umpire lived up to expectation. Electoral officers reported for duties promptly. Card readers never malfunctioned. Polling officers maintained neutrality in accordance with ethical practice. The exercise was transparent, making the electoral agency to build on its recent achievement in Edo State, where the governorship election was also free and fair. The ruling party learnt useful lessons from Edo where they got their hands burnt. Governors and party leaders closed ranks and worked for the success of the standard-bearer. At the state level, prominent chieftains put past acrimony behind them. Chief Olusola Oke, Amb. Sola Iji, Dr. Segun Abraham, Senator Ajayi Borrofice, Isaacs Kekemeke, Pa Ali Olanusi and Ife Oyedele buried their differences with the governor. They made great sacrifices for the platform. Other chieftains-party chairman Ade Adetimehin, Finance Commissioner Wale Akinterinwa, Information Commissioner Donald Ojogo, House of Assembly Speaker Oleyelogun, Publicity Secretary Alex Kalejaye and others held the fort in their various units and local governments. More importantly, the governors of APC rallied round their own. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, chairman of the Campaign Council, Osun State Governor Gboyega Oyetola, Chairman of Contact and Mobilisation Committee, Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi and Yahaya Bello of Kogi State relocated to Ondo State to mobilise indigenes of their states for the APC candidate. Oyetola was on campaign tour of the state four times, canvassing continuity. Sanwo-Olu held consultations with traditional leaders and community leaders in the heart of Ikaleland, admonishing them to permit the continuity of the progressive beat in the state. The perception of solidarity and support became the tonic for the state and local chapters to re-dedicate themselves to the actualisation of the second term.    The greatest loser is Agboola Ajayi, estranged deputy governor, who fell out with his boss, Governor Akeredolu (SAN). A maverick, Ajayi, a likeable personality and an experienced actor, is a man in a hurry. To observers, his inordinate ambition to displace his boss drew huge wool across his eyes. If he had exercised patience, may be, he would be the candidate to beat in 2024 since the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) is disposed to power shift to the South Senatorial District, his birthplace. Once Akeredolu got wind of his plot, he started perceiving him as a disloyal deputy. To him, the wild goose chase amounted to political pollution. The chord was severed. Ajayi started running helter-skelter, living to expectation as a serial defector. He left APC for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) where he lost the ticket to a more formidable aspirant, Ejitayo Jegede. After 40 days in the PDP, he defected to the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP). Funding for the party was difficult. At the weekend poll, he finally lost his deposit. He was humbled by the electorate. What future for the embattled politician? His position as deputy governor is shaking. The House of Assembly may see the victory of the governor as an impetus to revisit the impeachment plot. Even, if that option is not explored, his career as number two indigene of Ondo State is full of tension. Will Ajayi retrace his steps to PDP or APC? Will he remain in ZLP?  Jegede is a successful lawyer. He is a decent citizen. But, he has always got his calculations wrong. His projections are often faulty. Political fortune has not smiled on him. But, his supporters are full of hope for a brighter future. In 2016, some forces aborted his ambition. The coast was only clear two days to the election. Undeterred by the setback, he returned to the drawing board. Curiously, his think-tank could not discover the fact that the power equation in Ondo State did not favour him. A moralist, Jegede’s mood never accommodated an alliance, thereby failing to realise that in politics, there are no permanent friends or foes; what matters is permanent interest. Also, his Akure Agenda seemed to have alienated other zones. It rekindled, for example, the age-long land dispute between Akure, his hometown and Idanre. Twice, the former Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice has passed through a baptism of fire. Indeed, he is learning the ropes. No doubt, he is a good material. He should be courageous not to quit. Jegede should learn from past and present mistakes as he forges ahead into future with optimism.   The PDP was energised by its successful outing in Edo State, hoping to enlarge its coast in the Southwest. But, the terrain is different. What was paramount to the party after the Edo poll was to capture Ondo and gather a momentum for 2023. But, Ondo was not ready to return to the past. PDP’s preparations for the poll could not have paved the way for victory. The campaigns wobbled and the campaigners were in disarray. The result was that PDP could not win another state in the Southwest, reinforcing the position of Seyi Makinde of Oyo State as the lone governor in the region. For another four years, Ondo PDP will be left in the cold. But, the chapter should not be downcast. It should brace up for the role of opposition in democracy.   Olusegun Mimiko, former commissioner, secretary to government, minister and governor of Ondo State is the national leader of ZLP. In 2016, his succession project crumbled as Jegede, his anointed candidate, lost to  Akeredolu. Later, he pulled out of PDP, which he joined after bidding farewell to the Labour Party (LP), his next point of call after defecting from the Alliance for Democracy (AD). But, why did the Ondo-born politician, despite his experience and long stay in politics, fail to install his emergency godson, Ajayi, as governor? Is the big elephant now tired? Why can’t the lion roar again? Is the former governor now being deserted? There is a speculation that Mimiko has senatorial ambition. Can he still realise it on the platform of the ZLP?  The PDP national chairman also ate the humble pie. He was checkmated by the superior argument that Southwest is not assailed by collective amnesia. His dream of using a PDP victory in Ondo as an achievement under his leadership never came into reality. Although he threatened fire and brimstone, instead of putting his house in order, PDP failed the popularity test in the state.   Makinde is the undisputed arrowhead of the PDP in the Southwest. He is a big loser because he failed to add Ondo State to Oyo State as a PDP state in the Southwest.