The International Association of World Peace Advocates (IAWPA) has named Imo State Governor Hope Uzodimma the 2020 Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) Most Friendly Governor in Nigeria. The association also urged the United Nations (UN), African Union (AU), Economic Commission for West African States (ECOWAS), the New Partnership for Africa Development (NEPAD) and the international community to visit and invest in Imo State. It decorated the governor as an Eminent Peace Ambassador, based on his pursuit of peace in his leadership style in Imo State and beyond. The ceremony, which took place at the weekend at the Government House in Owerri, the state capital, was conducted by IAWPA President, Ambassador Per Stafsen, in company of other top members of the association. Stafsen described Uzodimma as a politician who has uncommon interest in quality leadership and one passionately inclined to meeting the SDG needs of his people. He said the governor is neither tribal nor ethnic in his administrative style, making him a true nationalist. “He (Uzodimma) is carrying everyone along and leaving no one behind, irrespective of class, age, colour, and religion. Hence, the social inclusion in his administration covers the five “Ps” of the SDGs, meaning People, Planet, Peace, Property and Partnership,” Stafsen said. The IAWPA President assured potential investors that any investment in Imo State will meet the needs of the people as “the governor represents a true man of trust and public confidence that will rewrite the Nigerian history”. Accepting the award, Uzodimma reiterated his administration’s commitment to good governance and support of the 17 programmes of the SDGs. The governor emphasised that the gains derivable from the activities of the SDGs would be used to assist the poor and the vulnerable in the society. He urged the UN and other world bodies involved in the SDGs programmes to sustain the programme, adding: “Africa needs it most, considering the level of poverty, disease, and declining educational standards plaguing the continent.”