 BARRISTER Siju Iluyomade has always been at the forefront of organising women to meet their full potentials as a nation and home builders through her annual Arise Walk for Life Programme. This year’s edition, which is the 12th of the ‘Arise Walk for Life’ programme became bigger and better despite restrictions on larger gatherings due to the coronavirus pandemic. In a bid to encourage exercises and improve health status, this year’s edition tagged ‘StayingAlive,’ held in clusters on Saturday, October 17, across many parts of the world. The convener, Dr. Iluyomade, started up her own cluster group alongside the wife of Governor of Ogun State, Mrs. Bamidele Abiodun, Former First Lady of Cross River, Mrs. Onari Duke, wife of Chairman of Daar Communication, Mrs. Moji Dokpesi among others in front of St. Saviour School, Bourdillon Road, Ikoyi down to the Ikoyi bridge and its environs. Former Super Eagles stars like Peter Rufai, Pastor Taribo West, and Jonathan Akpoborire also teamed up with her to add more side attraction to the day. In other parts of the states, the wife of Governor of Lagos State, Her Excellency, Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, and wife of the Deputy Governor, Mrs. Oluremi Hamzat joined the walk-in another cluster, walking along Marina area of the State along with some wives of members of the state cabinet. Also joining the walk is the wife of Kebbi State Governor, Dr. Zainab Bagudu along with her aides in the state capital, Minister For Women Affairs, Dame Pauline Tallen also led a cluster in Abuja to Walk for Life as they also observed the covid-19 protocol. This edition which heralds the yearly Arise Women Conference scheduled to hold on October 31st both virtually and also at the City of David Church Auditorium will witness an Arise Boat cruise to spice up the day. Though the convener along alongside her hubby, Pastor Idowu Iluyomade, led the Bourdillon cluster with other dignitaries, Arise Women Walk also took place in France, Philippines, America, UK, Mauritius, among other places.