 PATRICE Evra has called on Manchester United’s hierarchy to be slapped after Tottenham ran riot at Old Trafford. United’s former left-back watched Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s side fall apart as Spurs hit them for six. And with the Frenchman close to tears, he laid into his old club for failing to fix the problems that have plagued them since Sir Alex Ferguson left in 2013. When asked what he expects from United, Evra said: “Nothing. To be honest I feel sad. Also for the manager, but after we start to talk it’s the manager who will be the next one but what about the board? How many years since Ferguson left? How many managers have been sacked? “So that’s the solution. Every year now we’re going to talk about Ole’s not that man; maybe he’s not, maybe he is, we don’t know. “He wants players like Sancho but they don’t go for the right price. It’s like when you buy a car. I know the price but I say I’m bidding less. But what’s going on with my club? “What’s going on today? I’m really emotional. It’s really difficult to break a man like me. I’m a really positive person but I don’t promote the violence but many people need a good slap right now. “That’s what I would do right now.”   TEENAGER Iga Swiatek produced a stunning performance to knock out top seed and title favourite Simona Halep in the fourth round of the French Open. The 19-year-old from Poland thumped 30 winners and outplayed Halep in all areas of the court to win 6-1 6-2 in just an hour and seven minutes. In the previous round, Halep had claimed revenge against Amanda Anisimova, who beat her at Roland Garros last year, but here the boot was on the other foot.    CHELSEA have reportedly identified Atletico Madrid midfielder Thomas Partey as a possible alternative to Declan Rice. Chelsea are understood to be willing to do one more deal in their big-spending summer and regard West Ham United’s Rice as their top target. However, the Hammers are demanding more than £80m for the England international, forcing Chelsea to consider other options. The Guardian reports that Thomas is one of the names on their shortlist, despite heavily speculation linking him with a move to Arsenal. The Gunners are keen to sign either Thomas or Houssem Aouar before Monday’s deadline, but have so far been unable to agree a fee for either midfielder. Thomas is available for £45m due to a release clause in his contract, making him a cheaper option for Chelsea than Rice.   REAL Madrid are reportedly exploring the possibility of reaching an agreement for Lyon playmaker Houssem Aouar. While the French outfit have previously insisted that no sales would take place after Friday, Arsenal and Paris Saint-Germain continue to be linked with the 22-year-old. The Gunners are attempting to complete a permanent transfer this summer, with PSG said to prefer a loan agreement with a mandatory option to buy. However, L’Equipe claims that Real boss Zinedine Zidane wants to win the race for Aouar, signalling his intent by making contact with Lyon. Los Blancos have been successful in getting several big-earners off their wage bill, something which may put them in a position to bring in Aouar. Lyon allegedly value their star man in the region of £54m.