  THERE are fears that next Saturday’s governorship election in Ondo State might not be peaceful as was witnessed in the September 19 governorship election in Edo State. This is due to incidences of violence, allegations of destruction of bill boards, attacks on party supporters that have continued to trail campaigns of different political parties across the state. The attacks have continued despite last month’s warning by the state Commissioner of Police, Bolaji Salami, to political actors in the state that he would ensure prosecution of anybody caught with firearms or causing violence. Salami had summoned leaders of political parties after the clash between supporters of the All Progressives Congress and supporters of the Peoples Democratic Party at Oba Akoko in Akoko South West local government. According to Salami, “The Command will not allow thuggery and violence in this election. This is our last warning to all the parties. The use of any firearm is not allowed. Enough is enough. Let the tension continue to rise in your campaigns and not in handling weapons. If we finish killing our selves, who will vote for us. We don’t want people to be fighting. “This is our last warning to all political parties. The world is watching us. Let is not disgrace ourselves in the committee of nations. That our election activities is going primitive is not good for ourselves. If it turns to mentioning names, we will do that, we are here to maintain law and order and provide security for all indigenes of the state. Let this one be the time we will be talking on anything thuggery. We are just few days to the election.“ However, formoste election monitoring group, Yiaga Africa, in its latest release identified least six Local Government Areas (LGs) in Ondo State as flashpoint for violence during the election. The report reads in parts, “Whilst INEC has shown commitment and readiness for the election, key contenders and political actors have advanced narratives that forewarn of breakdown of law and order including alleged threats to deploy state and non-state instruments of force and armed violence. “This could affect the efficiency and credibility of electoral management processes, if not curtailed. “Specific cases of voter inducement were reported in Akoko South West, Akure South, Akoko South-East, Akoko North West, Ifedore and Odigbo LGAs. “Akoko South-West, Akure South, Idanre, Owo, Akoko South-East and Ese-Odo are considered hotspots and flashpoint of violence due to the prevalence of pre-election violence.” Areas where violence have occurred in the last two months were Owo, Akoko South West and Idanre. At Idanre, a staunched supporter of the ZLP identified as Taye was shot dead by yet to be identified persons. The killing led to protest in the town. Chairman of the ZLP in Idanre, Ademehintoye Claudus, who narrated that the killers were sponsored by chieftains of a major opposition political party in the area. He said, “Taye was killed because he was canvassing support for the ZLP being a member of our party. And what happened has also confirmed that they are calling for war in this election because they have been attacking us unchallenged. In fact, the party has broken the peace accord reached at the palace of the Monarch of Idanre with other political parties ahead of this contest. “Although, we have appealed to our members and supporters to remain calm even in the face of this provocation and asked them not to take laws into their own hands.” Governor Akeredolu was passing through Oba Akoko town to a Ikare Akoko for political campaign at a time candidate of the PDP, Eyitayo Jegede, was at traditional ruler’s palace in Oba Akoko. Fracas broke out between their supporters. Over 15 vehicles were destroyed while eight persons were injured. It was a blame game between Jegede and Akeredolu as both blame each as causing the fracas. Spokesman for Akeredolu campaign council, Richard Olatunde, said it was hoodlums of Jegede that attacked the campaign convoy of Governor Akeredolu. According to him, “In their crass display of madness and thuggery, the hoodlums set ablaze the branded campaign vehicle donated to the Akeredolu/Aiyedatiwa Campaign Organisation by Ambassador Sola Iji. “The driver of the vehicle sustained bodily injury and he is now receiving treatment at a government hospital. “While we are shocked and saddened by this attack, we are not too surprised, because the PDP has shown that it is not focusing on issues in its campaign for the election. They will rather deploy violence and falsehood to score cheap political points. “We say this is despicable and we view it as a sign of desperation by opposition parties in the state, who can’t stand the popularity of the APC, as they have seen the handwriting of their imminent defeat in the coming election on the wall.” But, Jegede at a press briefing in Akure said it was thugs in the convoy of Akeredolu that first fired shots into his direction. He said it was an assassination attempt on his life. Governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Eyitayo Jegede, has described the clash between members of his party and the All Progressives Congress in Oba Akoko, Akoko South West local government was an assassination attempt in his life. Jegede said the attempted assassination was to weaken his campaigns. According to him, “A dangerous dimension was introduced into our electioneering process by the APC under the direct watch of Gov. Rotimi Akeredolu during our stop at the palace of Oloba of Oba Akoko, in Akoko South West LGA. “We have a schedule of campaign approved by security agencies. No other political party was scheduled for that area.  We were in the palace when we heard gunshots fired at all of us who were within the precinct of Olaba palace. The shots were fired with the Governor leading the convoy. “15 vehicles were destroyed. I reported this formally to the Police Commissioner. This is a clear case of attempt on my life. I have not seen this desperation.  You can see long convoy of the Governor openly displaying arms. If anything happen to me the public knows who to hold responsible. I am not in this game because I am desperate but to free the people from pains and poverty. “What happened today is a collective view of the entire APC structure. We are focus on winning the elections and we will do it peacefully. We will defend ourself in this process. Being in government is not a license to kill people. “This will not continued. We are focused. We will win this election. They want to instill fear so that we will not come out to campaign. We will not be afraid. When bullets are fired at invidual that is clear attempted assassination.” Governorship candidate of the Action Democratic Party, Martins Olateru-Olagbegi, had earlier raised alarm about attacks on his supporters in Owo. According to him, “I am not worried about defeating Akeredolu. I only appeal to the media and people of like minds to appeal to the ruling party to create an énabling environment. Let everybody compete fairly. Instead of muscling people with guns, bottle and not to be able to campaign. “My hometown, Owo, has been decimated with the ruling party supporters saying the town must have only one party. If the Governor is confident that he doesn’t have problem, he should allow free and fair contest. Nigeria is not a one party system. If he has done a fairly good job, he should not be worried. “I am not worried about winning. I am worried about a fair competition. I have taken my case to the Commissioner of Police and INEC to let them know what we are going through because in order to get free and fair elections, people need to get to the masses not for destroying posters and even attacking people. I was in Owo when such thing happened to my party people because they wore my party cap. “There should be free and fair competition. Why is everybody unable to speak their mind. Why are they attacking my people. I spent my hard earned money to put all these up. All public facilities are plastered with posters of the ruling party. Allow free and fair competition and allow people listen. Don’t let people be afraid to attend rallies to listen without be feared of being maimed and attacked. We have made report. I am a Prince from Owo, why should anybody said my party cannot be free in Owo.” Last Tuesday’s clash at Owo between supporters of the PDP and the APC left 13 persons injured and 20 vehicles destroyed even as robbers had a field day dispossessing people of the valuables. Jegede was in Owo, hometown of Governor Akeredolu to solicit for votes. He alleged that APC members blocked access to the palace and his maternal home with a view to deny him access to both places. According to him, “Prior to our entry into Ipele, touts and miscreants under the APC had unleashed terror on our members with several casualties. These miscreants were dispersed by a joint team of police and NSCDC officers. The DPO of Ipele is alleged to have not only supervised the assault but also arrested six members of the PDP including the youth leader whose hands had been broken by the attackers and beaten to a coma. He said one Amuda Sikiru was shot in the face and abdomen while a truck in his convoy was completely burnt down. But, Richard said the PDP went berserk when no one received them into Owo town and alleged that Jegede ordered his thugs to unleash coordinated attacks on the people of Ipele and Ijebu in Owo local government area. Some of the victims who spoke when State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Bolaji Salami and the Commandant of the Nigeria Security And Civil Defense Corps, Philip Ayuba visited the area said they were unjustly attacked. Mrs. Nike Alale, said she was attacked while buying fuel at Bovas Gas Station at Aro Junction in Owo. She said: “We were buying fuel here and all of a sudden we heard gun shots. We had to run inside the fuel station office. We were watching them as they destroyed my vehicle. They were shouting “Eyi La fe”. They stole all the valuables in my car including my phones and this car document. “They came down from a PDP campaign convoy. We saw them shouting kill them! Kill them! There is no APC sticker on my car. I am not an APC member. This is unfair.” 