  COVID-19 records deaths approaching 1,200,000, infections 41,000,000, 62,000 confirmed cases and 1,200 deaths in Nigeria. Nigerians are acting as if ‘Nigeria Killed Covid’. It has not, ooo!!!! Every single Nigerian can today ‘ABCDEFGGHI=Avoid Bribery & Corruption Daily Everywhere For Good Governance Here Immediately for a Nigeria@60’. Let each Fellow Nigerian swear and mean to be ‘Faithful, Loyal and Honest’. Simple but true! I have. Have YOU??? Nigeria needs Ombudspersons to adjudicate in many interfaces. It is so easy. Just you can ENDCORRUPTION in your social distance area -Abuse of Office, Bullying, Brutality, Corruption, Diverting Public Funds, Etcetera. Make an office or classroom wall poster. Many youths have been brutalised. Anyone 18 and above can join the Armed Forces and risks being killed as a pilot, as a sailor at sea, or shot as a soldier fighting Boko Haram or other terrorists. Indeed, Nigeria’s citizens are unaware of the bravery and sacrifice of many, but not all, its uniformed personnel who have paid the supreme price. Figures are always disputed. Years ago, I was in Sango Cemetery. Ibadan. Suddenly a minivan entered the cemetery and a frantic woman jumped out and ran to a military funeral in the cemetery shouting ‘You could not even tell me my husband was dead!’ Such poor respect for those who die in national service. Being young is not too young to die. It is not be too old to live, in or out of uniform!!! Being young is not ‘no brain to act independently’. The youth hurt! The ENDSARS is a protest of targeted brutalised frustrated angry youth disenchanted with drifting ship of state, Nigeria, riddled with easily prevented hate. Take the killing/brutalisation out of SARS, corruption out of police checkpoints, stupendous ‘Salaries And Perks’ out of NASS, exchange the NASS budget with the Health Budget, give Nigeria true federalism and ENDSARS would never exist. Blame the perpetrators, the abusers, not the victims -dead and survivors.  Blame perpetrators precipitating poverty, spilling blood of Nigeria’s youth which precipitated the crisis. As a doctor, thousands of women have painfully done their service to Nigeria by delivered their babies in my presence. Born to die young? I have witnessed too many ‘my precious baby’ lives lost and blood by tankerloads on the bloodthirsty floor. Needless death and suffering are no longer acceptable. Nigeria allows its 18-year-old youths to die but ignores the youth as an active volcanic powerhouse for change. Increasing retirement age also hinders youth progression. Nigeria has refused, apart from tokenism like giving youth ‘IT’ or ‘Youth and Sport’ Ministry, to invite the youth to participate in governance decision making. Nigerian politicians call 45-year olds ‘youths’ in a deliberate psychological policy to lower expectations of youth and expand the definition of youth to 40-50 to lock youth out of governance by saying ‘Youth, wait your turn’ as older politicians shamelessly recycle themselves around Commissioner to Senate and monopolise party political posts blocking access to new ideas or faces.  The two 4-year terms totalling eight years per office has blocked the path to political progress for progressive youth. Wisdom and foolishness reside in both youth and aged. Youth have a right to be listened to and invited. ENDSARS is listening time. In the NYSC Camp in 1975/6 as a young doctor, I refused the definition of youth at 26. Why was the care of NYSC members so poor? Today that care of the youth has worsened because Nigerian politicians operate mentally on ‘Maximum standards for politicians/Minimum Standards for nonpoliticians /Maximum Profits level! Remember the Channels TV report of the abysmal care of police recruits in Ikeja?  Nigerian politicians who ignored Nigeria’s greatest potential, ‘the youth’, and prefer to spend three times as much on themselves in a hopefully ‘soon to go’ bloated two-house National Assembly than on education. As youth we manned polling booths against thugs sent by politicians to steal the vote. For years today’s youth have watched their generation’s efforts turn to dust as they suffer the consequences of neglected ‘way forward’ papers, conferences, panels of enquiry, commissions which have vomited excellent recommendations to correct malaise in the police and society. All ignored causing frustration waiting for the trigger which exploded with the disregard of police for human rights. There is a collective youth anger at the poor position of Nigeria after 60 years of self-rule. We must give the ENDSARS youth 10 gbosas. ENDSARS-both Police SARS and NASS Salaries and Pension Scams were insultingly inflicted with other ills plaguing Nigeria by an uncaring, self-centred corrupt political class with hangers on. Dispel the myth that stopping corruption takes time. Just stop, now, today and Nigerian economy will grow as life becomes cheaper with no checkpoint bribery nationwide! It is a decision followed by rigorous supervision, punishment against a failed supervisor. President Buhari is familiar with the military term ‘With Immediate Effect’: Tell IGP to stop checkpoint and police station bail today. If in one week there is a ‘Supervisors Report’ of corruption from anywhere, then suspend/replace him. He will sanction juniors. All bail and checkpoint corruption will stop instantly. In one week!!! Apply this in your office! Change Nigeria. The NASS does not need the Presidency to cut its salaries. NASS should announce SARS= Senators And Reps Salary Review downwards by 75%. Why does NASS not give voluntary service like NYSC!  After ENDSARS please END. CHECKPOINT. CORRUPTION and END. UNSUPERVISED. POLICE. STATIONS!!! END. CORRUPT. NIGERIA. START. CITIZENS. ANTICORRUPTION. VIDEO. CHANNEL. All hail the citizen’s video! START.GREAT.NIGERIA!!!