  LEADWAY Assurance Company Limited has unveiled the anniversary logo commemorating its 50 years of providing  service to Nigerians. The ceremony, toned down to align with social distancing conditions, kicked off a series of commemorative events to acknowledge stakeholders who have contributed to its success. The event at the company’s Corporate Office in Iponri, Surulere, Lagos was led by the Managing Director, Mr. Tunde Hassan-Odukale; Executive Director, General Insurance, Ms. Adetola Adegbayi; former Managing Director, Mr. Oye Hassan-Odukale and other company executives. In a message to stakeholders entitled, ’50 and Fluid, A time for gratitude’, Mr. Tunde Hassan-Odukale said the occasion of our 50th Anniversary is a time for reflection and gratitude. Reflection on the strides, successes, and challenges past; gratitude for the journey so far and the opportunities of the future. “Ours started with the dream of a man who wanted to serve. He knew that to give life to this vision, he would need to work with other people of like minds. ..Ever the community man and humanist, our founder, my father, Sir Hassan Olusola Odukale, believed and firmly practiced the saying …”if you want to go fast, go it alone; but, if you want to go far, go with others. “The story today will therefore not be complete without the mention of those who took hold of his dream, started the journey with him, kept the faith and sowed their sweat to create the company we see today. Acknowledging them first, I use this opportunity to appreciate every stakeholder that has helped to make Leadway a household name and a respected brand,” he said. “We appreciate the support over the years and look forward to more in the years to come. You make what we do outstanding and we acknowledge your immense support over the years. As excited as we are to celebrate our accomplishment in the last 50 years, we do recognize that there is more work to be done to achieve our ambitious goals for Leadway.  I have no doubt that with the relentless pursuit of customer-centricity, leveraging innovation and digital technology, the next 50 years will be better than the past,” he added.