The second African Women in Media Award is set to recognise women journalists who support women entrepreneurship in Africa. The award, which is on the behest of APO Group, a pan-African communications and business consultancy, will be bestowed to the winner at the Sixth Africa Women Innovation and Entrepreneurship Forum’s (AWIEF) Virtual Conference and Awards. The awards will be hosted on December 2 and 3,  with the theme “Reimagining business & rebuilding better.” The winner will get $2,500 prize, and online courses from one of the most respected international universities. AWIEF’s yearly event is a platform that sees global thought leaders, industry experts, policymakers, academics, development organisations and investors gather to dialogue, connect, network, share, collaborate and transact in a combined effort to boost Africa’s entrepreneurship ecosystem for women. APO Group Chairman and founder Nicolas Pompigne-Mognard said: “The launch of our inaugural award in 2019 was successful in putting a spotlight on the work of female journalists sharing the stories of women entrepreneurs in Africa.  “We are proud to continue the APO Group African Women in Media Award as part of our commitment to supporting the development of journalism on the continent. We look forward to presenting this award with AWIEF in Johannesburg, South Africa as we celebrate women in journalism and entrepreneurship. ”Entries for APO Group African Women in Media Award must offer valuable insights into African female entrepreneurs, while appealing to a global audience.The award is open to African woman journalists and bloggers, whether directly employed or freelancers, working in the continent of Africa who have produced a story that has been broadcast or published in English, French, Portuguese or Arabic in the form of a printed publication, a television feature, a radio story, a website or a blog whose primary audience is based in Africa. Stories must have been broadcast or published between January 1 and October 31. Stories are judged on content, writing, analysis, creativity, human interest and community impact. All stories must be submitted in electronic format. The deadline for entries is October 31, 2020. And finalists will be announced on November 20, 2020, while the winner will be announced on Thursday, December 3, 2020.