The Anglican bishop of the Ogbaru Diocese, Anambra State, Most Rev Prosper Amah has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to stop avoiding honest dialogue capable of bringing the country out of the woods it presently found itself. He attributed the inability of the current administration to make serious positive changes since assumption to its unwillingness to throw its doors open to negotiation. Amah stated this in his presidential address to the 2nd session of the 5th Synod of the diocese held at Immanuel Anglican Church, Umunankwo in the Ogbaru Local Government Area of the state. He said the cries by Nigerians over marginalization, insecurity and restructuring were too loud to be suppressed by what he called the federal might. The Prelate also berated the National Assembly over its preoccupation with bills with no social political, religious or economic values, reminding them that they were in the hallowed chambers to make laws favourable to Nigerians, especially the poor and the less privileged. He said, “It is obvious that Nigeria needs divine and International intervention. No sector is functioning optimally in Nigeria. The cries against marginalization and for restructuring to take place are too loud to be suppressed by the federal might. “We have been lamenting about the insecurity in Nigeria which has not been given adequate attention. Banditry and kidnapping are spreading at a fast rate. “The incessant killings by terrorist herdsmen and their brother Boko Haram have not received any commensurate action they deserve by the Federal Government. “We see lopsided appointment which is devoid of federal character. One region and religion are favoured more than the others. “The National Assembly should remember that we voted them and they must be answerable to the electorate. They are in the hallowed chambers to make laws that will favour Nigerians especially the poor and the less privilege. “Unfortunately the nineth Assembly is busy with bills that have no social political, religious or economic values. The bishop added,” The only solution to our present predicament is restructuring. The cries against marginalization and for restructuring are on the increase and too loud that intimidation and frustration by the Federal Government and their agents cannot stop. “Restructuring is imperative in order to take care of what I call ‘fundamentals’. We need a people’s constitution, because a constitution that was made by military dictators should not guide a fragile democracy like ours.”