The Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria (FRC) has reaffirmed its commitment to deepening  deepening the knowledge of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) nine, 16 and 17. Speaking during a stakeholder’s interactive forum with International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), Deputy Director/Head Directorate of Accounting Standards Public Sector at FRC, Iheanyi Anyahara, said the training will enable financial institutions in obtaining first hand information on IFRS implementation challenges from the users. He explained that FRC is a regulatory agency of the Federal Government that promotes trade and investment in Nigeria by ensuring high standards of financial reporting and corporate governance. He said the body also  maintains independent public oversight of accounting, auditing and financial reporting and corporate governance of public interest entities by setting, monitoring and enforcement of compliance with related standards. The FRC also advises government on accounting, financial reporting and corporate governance matters with commensurate powers to do all things connected with above functions. Anyahara said the council has been very resolute and committed in driving its vision of being the conscience of regulatory assurance in financial reporting and corporate governance in Nigeria. He said: “The Council issued the National Code of Corporate Governance in the early part of the year.The document apart from aligning with world best practices on corporate governance has also been commended as a game changer in corporate governance. In the same vein, the council has further simplified its registration processes which implies that you can get your registration numbers within 48 hours after completing your registration.” Continuing, Anyahara said the council ensures that stakeholders are involved in the standard setting processes of international accounting and auditing bodies through the various technical committees, among other initiatives. He said the FRC is at the final stage of issuing its long-awaited audit regulation, which is expected to provide increased transparency for investors and other stakeholders, as well as enhance economic growth, among other benefits. He said the IFRS was instituted  as part of measures to improve transparency, reporting practices and full disclosures. Having adopted the IFRS by the FRC, it means that all amendments to existing standards alongside the new standards issued by the IASB must be implemented by all reporting entities in Nigeria. He explained that IFRS 9 introduces a new methodology for financial instruments classification and the incurred loss impairment model is replaced with a more forward-looking expected loss model. He said the council is however getting its constituent ready for IFRS 17, Insurance Contracts which will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2023 after the standard was amended on 25 June 2020 to defer its effective date.  The council is aware that implementing IFRS 17 commands a radical departure from current accounting standards and produces complex operational challenges. 