 STAKEHOLDERS, who met last week to celebrate the World Maritime Day in Lagos, made a request to President Muhammadu Buhari: He should develop a functional shipping policy that would make the sector a major contributor to poverty reduction, job and wealth creation, skills acquisition and entrepreneurship promotion. The stakeholders also said they wanted the seaports to be safe, secure, and perform optimally. Speaking with The Nation on the sidelines, the stakeholders said the sector could contribute at least 10 per cent of the nation’s  gross domestic product (GDP) because it has the biggest market in Africa and generates about 67 per cent of cargo thoroughput in West Africa. The theme for this year’s Day is: “Sustainable shipping for a sustainable planet,” It provides an opportunity to raise awareness for the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The stakeholders emphasised that the SDGs were germane to the industry. The Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Transportation, Dr. Magdalene Ajani, also urged participants not to see the yearly event as a mere celebration, but as a time for sober reflection. Senior Special Assistant to the President on SDG’s, Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire, said it had been five years since Buhari joined other world leaders at the 70th Session of the United Nations to adopt the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development of 17 SDGs to end poverty, safeguard the planet and ensure peace and prosperity. Also, the Chairman, Senate Committee on Maritime Transport, Senator Danjuma Goje, represented by Senator Tolu Odebiyi, Vice Chairman, Senate Committee on Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Chairman, House Committee on Maritime Safety, Education and Administration, Hon. Linda Ikpeazu, advised that the recommendations reached be backed by policy and action. The Director-General, Nigeria Maritime Administration, and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Bashir Jamoh, assured the international community that with the Anti-Piracy Act, Nigeria had repositioned to fight piracy and change the narrative, following recent statistics by International Maritime Organisation (IMO), that the nation’s waters were the most dangerous to trade in. Also in a communiqué, NIMASA was directed to provide a platform for marine incident reporting and information sharing; training and retraining of seafarers in line with internationally acceptable standards; and that there should be a collaboration between government and private maritime training institutions. Investigation has shown that about 65 per cent of cargoes heading for the region end up in the Nigerian market. An analyst, Mr Festus Filagbade, lamented that the sector had not achieved its goals over the years and urged the President to assist the industry to arrest its declining fortune. He said the forum was not aimed at criticising the government, but to assist the Federal Government on how to develop the industry. “We are coming against the backdrop of repositioning the maritime industry because in the last 20 years the maritime industry has seen gradual decline. So, what we hope to achieve is to reposition and refocus the industry within the region. “We want a functional maritime policy. The government cannot just create a policy without having to know what the stakeholders want; that is why we are here. “This administration must be ready to build the maritime sector, create a sector that will stand out within the region if not in Africa and beyond,” he said. A maritime lawyer, Mr Dipo Alaka, however, berated a situation where the country is losing billions of naira yearly for not putting the government did not put the sector at the reach of Nigerians. “While different figures are given by the various groups as to what the country loses annually to foreign-flagged vessels, the fact remains that what Nigeria loses to non-implementation of the Cabotage Act in monetary and employment terms is monumental. These are happening because of non-functional shipping policy. “About 80 per cent of the world trade by weight is done by sea. In the case of our country, 90 per cent is done by sea. Despite this huge potential, local capacity in the maritime industry remains low. Nigeria imports several million tonnes of cargo and general goods annually, yet its maritime sector is in a shambles.” Alaka called for the development of the blue economic policy, the use of scientific and verified information for the development of the sector. The university teacher also looked at the prospects of the industry and policies that have over the years skewed the development and efficiency of this critical cash-cow industry that firmly holds the beacon of hope and survival of a developing economy like Nigeria. An importer, Mr Dairo Adefila, said the country is a major international trading nation in Africa, and that it exports large quantities of hydrocarbons to earn substantial revenue which accrue from crude oil export that are used mainly to fund huge trade in imports. “Due to its geographical location, and spatial, logistical characteristics, alongside its topographical landscape, the country, as one of the developing African nations, needs to create an efficient shipping. Shipping is required for the evacuation of the nation’s exports and for inward carriage of the imports. In the context of  economic growth and development as one of the developing African countries of note, shipping’s production function could well be developed in the service of the nation’s international trading requirements. “Obviously shipping has a direct bearing and reflective impact on the development process of a country as it improves the foreign exchange situation, creates employment, and fosters technological transfer and economic integration, while also helping to strengthen national security. These are the reasons some of us are saying it loud and clear that as we are celebrating the World Maritime Day, the country must develop a functional shipping policy that will shape the industry before 2021 celebration,” Adefila said.