A 48-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly chopping off five fingers of his 22-year-old son. Police said Gregory Enwaeso, a traditional healer, sliced off his son Abuchi’s fingers with a machete for allegedly absconding with his N150,000. The incident happened in Egbengwu village Nimo, Njikoka Local Government Area of Anambra State, The Nation gathered. The suspect was said to have conspired with a younger in the commission of the act. It was learnt that the traditional doctor accused Abuchi of disappearing with N150,000 shortly after a party he threw following a successful business deal. The victim was reportedly chained and abandoned for four weeks. Confirming the incident, police spokesman Haruna Mohammed said the suspects were arrested following a tip-off. He said the machete allegedly used in the act was recovered while the victim was rushed to hospital for medical attention. He said, “Police operatives attached to Nimo Division in collaboration with a local vigilante group arrested one Gregory Enwaeso aged 48 years, of Egbengwu village Nimo in Njikoka Local Government Area of Anambra State. “The suspect allegedly conspired with his son, one Chinonso Enwaeso aged 20 years of same address and chopped off all the fingers of his biological son, one Abuchi Enwaeso, aged 22 years, of same address, using a machete. “The suspects equally chained the victim and abandoned him for four weeks living him in severe pain. “Police detectives visited the scene of crime, photographed the victim and rushed him to General Hospital Enugu-Ukwu for medical attention. The machete allegedly used in perpetrating the act was recovered as exhibit. “The suspects who voluntarily confessed to the dastardly act claimed that the victim allegedly absconded with the sum of N150,000 proceeds realized by the father after throwing up a party following a breakthrough in his business. “Commissioner of Police John Abang has ordered for the case to be transferred to the State CID Awka for discreet investigation.”