 THE National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) said it will inaugurate the 11-member Independent Investigative Panel (IIP) it recently constituted to probe allegations of human rights violations against the defunct Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) and other units of the Nigeria Police Force (NFP). The inauguration, according to the NHRC’s spokesperson Fatima Agwai Mohammed, will hold in the agency’s auditorium at noon today. Members of the panel, according to a list by the NHRC, include a retired Justice of the Supreme Court, Justice Suleiman Galadima (who is expected as the Chairman), with a former Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Lamorde, now a Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of police, as a member. Other members are: Abdulrahaman Yakubu, Yemi Ademolakun, Chioma Chuka, Prof. Ayo Atsenuwa, Tijani Mohammed, Dr. Uju Agomoh, Dr. Garba Tetengi (SAN), Feyikemi Abudu, John Aikpokpo Martins and Hilary Ogbonna (Secretary). In a statement last week, the commission quoted its Executive Secretary, Tony Ojukwu, as outlining the panel’s terms of reference. These include the hearing of petitions, complaints and memoranda from Nigerians across the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The panel will thereafter make recommendations to the Federal Government on how best to reform SARS and other units of the police force. “Besides, the panel is given the powers to refer any matter, in the course of its assignment, to the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) or that of a state for prosecution, in accordance with the law. “The panel is empowered as well to make recommendations to government on measures to be taken in respect of operatives of defunct SARS or officers of the Nigerian Police Force, if any, found in violation of human rights of citizens and propose remedial steps that may enhance the professional conduct of defunct SARS operatives, any succeeding unit and other members of the Nigerian Police Force and any other recommendations that may be considered appropriate,” the statement said. 