Four Coalition groups in Anambra State, have faulted those calling for prosecution of former SARS Commander in the State, CSP James Nwafor as the real enemies of the people Nwafor, who retired from the Police as a Chief Supritendent of Police CSP, is allegedly, being linked to many killings during his time as commander of the disbanded Special Anti Robbery Squad SARS in the state But four Coalition groups in Anambra State, have described the allegation as unfounded, adding that those accusing him were ignorant of what he did in Igbo land The groups are, Anambra Security Network (ASN), Nnewi Elders Forum(NEF), Awka Consultative Assembly (ACA) and Anambra Traders Union (ATU). In a statement Saturday which was made available to reporters in Awka, the spokesperson for the groups, Chief Simon Okonkwo, said Nwafor even went as far as Abia, Imo, Ebonyi, Enugu to fish out criminals during his time. They said without Nwafor, the entire South East would have been sacked from their respective States as prominent citizens of the States were not coming home again for fear of being abductrd. “Contrary to Igbo customs and tradition, they were conducting traditional marriages in Abuja, Lagos and other places outside Igbo land where they were residing because of fear of being abducted and killed by suspected kidnappers. “Most of the people condemning Nwafor lacked knowledge of the dynamics of hunting down criminals,” Okonkwo said. The groups insisted that Nwafor rescued many prominent persons in the State, who were abducted by kidnapers between 2011 and 2017. Such prominent persons he mentioned, would have been killed if not for timely intervention of Nwafor and his SARS team . They stressed that Nwafor was equally instrumental to the resolution of Aguleri-Umuleri war,which had claimed about 2,000 people before he was drafted there. ” When he was deployed to take charge of the crisis, he employed alternative dispute resolution (ADR) to bring a lasting peace to the warring communities” The group mentioned names of prominent Easterners the former SARS commander rescued from the claws of kidnappers in Nnewi,Awka, Onitsha, Ekwulobia ,Lagos, Owerri, PH and other parts of country. “We think Nwafor should be commended instead of this vilification. People should live Nwafor alone “We will do everything to defend him. We gave him title because he defended us at a time when nobody came to our rescue” he said They groups, therefore, asked Nigerians and international community to disregard those faceless people accusing Nwafor of extra-judicial killings. “They are the enemies of Anambra State and the entire SouthEast and People who like the insecurity of the State.”