 Nigerian music sensation Tiwa Savage has been unveiled as the first brand ambassador of Twisco, a premium chocolate drink powder from the stable of Promasidor Nigeria Limited. The multi-talented and award-winning singer was unveiled at an exclusive media event at the corporate head office of Promasidor at Isolo, Lagos State. Tiwa was unveiled alongside her son, Jamil, to signpost the brand building objective and essence of the new product offering from the foremost dairy company. The new chocolate drink powder, according to Promasidor, is fortified with ENERFORT, a special blend of 10 power-packed micro-nutrients, including Vitamin B2, B6, B12, C, D3, Niacin, Calcium, Phosphorous, Iron and Zinc- all of which are necessary for optimal energy release that consumers need to power their dream. Speaking on the choice of Tiwa  as an ambassador for Twisco, the Managing Director, Promasidor Nigeria, Mr Anders Einarsson, said: “Tiwa Savage is a great Nigerian, multi award-winning singer and songwriter known worldwide. “She is a multi-talented Nigerian whose brand equity rating remains remarkably inspiring and admirable. In addition, she is a mum of a fun-loving and energetic boy named Jamil, and supports her son in achieving his dream which is what Twisco stands for.” Tiwa said that Twisco would benefit a lot from her brand considering her huge following on social media. She continued: “For kids, the packaging is very attractive, and I’m glad that Twisco is nutritious and affordable for consumers across all social strata. I particularly like the brand because it meets my expectation. My son, Jamil, genuinely likes Twisco, too. I think selling something that one truly believes in is a stronger way of marketing.” The Marketing Manager, Promasidor Nigeria Ltd, Mr Abiodun Ayodeji, said the company launched Twisco into the market with a view to offer consumers a chocolate drink powder that delivers optimal nutrition and energy to power their dreams. “Twisco has the goodness of cocoa, malt and milk comes. It comes in a premium look and feel packaging available in 25gramme sachets, 500gramme Tin and 500gramme refill,’’ Ayodeji explained.