  A teacher from Concordia College, Yola Adamwa State Anani Oluwabunmi, , Adamawa State, , over the weekend,  emerged the winner of the 2020 Maltina Teacher of the Year. Anani was declared the winner at the grand finale held on Friday, October 16, 2020, at Eko Hotel & Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos. As winner,  Anani received  a total cash prize of N6.5 million (N1.5million immediately and N1million annually for the next five years) from the Nigerian Breweries – Felix Ohiwerei Trust Fund.  She also got an all-expense paid capacity development training abroad while a fully equipped computer laboratory or six-classroom block worth N20 million will be built for her school in her honour by the Fund. Speaking at the event, the Minister of State for Education, Honourable Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba commended the company’s unflinching commitment in supporting the education sector by rewarding high performing teachers through the annual Maltina Teacher of the Year initiative. Nwajiuba noted that it was heartwarming to note that the company is keeping faith with this initiative despite the disruptive impact of the coronavirus pandemic on businesses and economy. In his welcome address, the Managing Director, Nigerian Breweries Plc, Mr. Jordi Borrut Bel explained that the initiative was designed to recognize, celebrate and motivate teachers whose stories have become great reminders of their role in laying the foundation for a good society. While congratulating the finalists alongside state champions for coming this far, he stated that the role of teachers cannot be underestimated given their contribution to shaping and moulding lives. “With the Maltina Teacher of the Year, we are saying that our teachers can and should be rewarded for their roles in the development of our nation”, Bel said. Idele Benedicta, a teacher from Asoro Grammar School Senior, Egor, Edo State emerged the first runner-up winning a total of N1.5 Million while Adeeko Folukemi, a teacher from Patterson Memorial Baptist Grammar School, Abeokuta, Ogun State emerged as second runner-up with a prize of N1, 250, 000.00. Other 27 teachers who emerged as state champions were also rewarded with a sum of N500, 000.00 each. The Commissioner of Education, Lagos State, Mrs. Folashade Adefisayo who represented the Executive Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu also commended Nigerian Breweries Plc while noting that teachers play a significant role in nation-building given their contribution in imparting knowledge in the lives of their students. Speaking after she was announced as the winner of the coveted prize, Anani thanked Nigerian Breweries Plc, Maltina for putting smiles on the faces of teachers through this initiative by rewarding and recognizing them. Since inception, the Maltina Teacher of the Year initiative has produced six grand winners, Rose Nkemdilim Obi, Anambra (2015), Imoh Essien, Akwa Ibom (2016), Felix Ariguzo, Delta State (2017), Olasunkanmi Opeifa, FCT (2018), Ezem Collins (2019) and now Oluwabunmi Anani.  