 Ondo State Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu has vowed to institute a legal action against anybody who fails to show evidence of his wife and children doing consultancy jobs for his administration. He said he was blessed to have a wife and children who could support him financially. Opposition parties had been using the hashtag no to government of father, mother and son, to campaign against Akeredolu. The governor spoke in Akure at a debate organised by the Face the Voter Initiative. He was responding to an allegation of running a government of father, mother and son. Also present at the debate were candidates of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Oyeleye Fasua and Eyitayo Jegede. The PDP standard-bearer said the office of a governor is held in public trust and not for family members. He said due process must be allowed and not for him to allow his wife and children do consultancy job for the government. But Fasua said his wife would be involved in his administration to avoid dying early.  On health care, Jegede said it was wrong to raise Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) from health care, noting that the cost of accessing health care under Governor Akeredolu was out of the reach of the poor. But Akeredolu said he signed the health insurance into law to provide free health care. He said anybody that has insurance card gets free health care, adding that he has built additional hospitals. Fasua said he supported the health insurance, noting that he would do same if elected as governor, but Jegede argued that health insurance should not be the way to get free health care. He wondered how many farmers had access to the insurance scheme. Speaking about infrastructure, Jegede said there were no roads in Ese-Odo Ilara Mokin and Ilaje local governments, but Akeredolu said people now call him ‘Mr. Infrastructure’ because of the numerous roads he has built. Akeredolu said the new industries at Ore had employed thousands of persons, adding that he revived the moribund Okitipupa Oil Industry. Jegede said he would attract industries to the state. Fasua said he would introduce irrigation to ensure food security and teach Ondo farmers modern technology.  