 THE Public Transport Owners of Nigeria Association (PTONA) has called on the Federal Government to release the N10 billion palliative approved for transport owners. The fund was meant to cushion the losses of the transport owners during the COVID-19 lockdown. It would be recalled that during the lockdown, interstate and cross border transport operators were directed by the government to suspend operations. PTONA said its members made huge revenue losses during the period. During the six-hour meeting, the governing council of the association lamented the negative impact of COVID-19 pandemic, armed robbery attacks and kidnappings on its business operations nationwide. The council thanked the government for the approval, but frowned that, the fund is yet to be disbursed. The operators appealed to the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) to come to the aid of the road users, who are daily suffering untold hardships in the hands of the criminal element. PTONA appealed to the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 to stop the 50 per cent seating capacity policy on interstate buses nationwide. PTONA said: “Members reminded the government that, it is only its branded interstate buses that have been following and observing the guidelines in their buses. Other unorganised interstate buses, including the airlines, have since been loading full capacity without following the guidelines of social distancing. All the government ministries, departments and agencies are fully aware of “Council regretted that in spite of the efforts of the security agencies to improve security in the country, the incidence of robbery attacks and kidnappings on the highways has actually escalated leading to the attacks on our members’ buses that have reached a frightening dimension, especially at Obajana Junction in Kogi state. “Council also called for the removal of curfew on inter-state highway roads or scrap the nationwide curfew altogether. It also raises concern on traffic hubs such as Ojota swarming with thousands of passengers as late as early hours of the night due to traffic delays on roads. “The PTF on COVID-19 is giving security agents more room to extort money from commuters and transport operators. The council meeting also called for 24 hours highway patrol police at places such as Obajana Junction to tackle the menace, as well as some other hotspots in the country.”  