A 26-year-old woman, Hauwa’u Habibu, has been arrested by the Police in Kano for killing her two children. The resident of Diso Quarters, Gwale local government area allegedly used a machete and aluminum pestle to hack down her six-year-old son Irfan Ibrahim and three-year-old daughter, Zuhura Ibrahim. The bodies of the deceased were had severe cuts. The suspect also severely wounded her 10-year- old nephew before fleeing to an unknown destination, police told The Nation on Sunday. It was gathered trouble started when Hauwa’s husband married a second wife about two months ago. Police spokesman, Abdullahi Haruna, in a statement said, upon receiving news of the homicide, a team of detectives rushed to the scene and took the victims to Murtala Mohammed Specialist Hospital Kano, where a medical doctor confirmed the two dead. The nephew, Aisha Sadiq, however, survived the attack and was transferred to Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital where she was treated and discharged. Sadiq alleged she heard the suspect threatening to kill the children and the newly married wife but thought she would not attempt it. Haruna said the incident occurred on Saturday. “The suspect was arrested on the same day at about 2250hrs,” he said. “Upon this unfortunate incident, the Command Commissioner of Police, Habu Sani, raised and directed a team of Operation Puff Adder led by SP Nasiru Gusau, Divisional Police Officer (DPO) Gwale Division to arrest the suspect within 24hours. “During preliminary investigation, the suspect confessed she locked up the victims in their dwelling house and used a machete and aluminum-made pestle to attack the three helpless children. “She caused severe injuries on different parts of their bodies. Quick intervention of the police saved one of them, Aisha, to live and tell the horrific story,” Haruna, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), said. Police Commissioner, Habu Sani, has ordered the case be transferred to the State Criminal Investigations Department (SCID) for “discreet investigation.”