Scores of Boko Haram fighters have been neutralised at Ngwuri Gana, Jumacheri in Borno State, following an air bombardment of the terrorists’ hideouts by military jets. In a statement by Coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Major-General John Enenche, the operation was part of the offensive against insurgents in the Northeast. The statement said, “In continuation of the sustained offensive against terrorist elements in the Northeast of the country, under subsidiary Operation WUTAR TABKI, the Air Task Force of Operation Lafiya Dole has destroyed terrorists’ hideouts and neutralised several fighters at Ngwuri Gana along the Gulumba Gana-Kumshe axis as well as at Jumacheri near Damasak in the Northern part of Borno State. “This was achieved through separate air interdiction missions carried out on 21 and 22 October 2020 on the heels of human intelligence reports as well as series of intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) missions indicating that several terrorists had assembled at the two locations in preparation to launch attacks against nearby troops’ positions. “The hits by Nigerian Air Force (NAF) fighter jets and helicopter gunships dispatched by the Air Task Force to attack the two target areas resulted in the destruction of some  structures as well as the neutralisation of dozens of terrorists”. In Yobe State police yesterday said they killed six suspected Boko Haram terrorists who earlier attacked Babangida town in Tarmuwa Local Government Area of the state. Spokesman Dungus Abdulkarim disclosed this in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Damaturu, the state capital. Abdulkarim said the six suspected terrorists were shot dead by mobile police personnel protecting the division. “Our mobile police personnel held their ground and exchanged gunfire with the terrorists, killing six of them while many others fled with gunshot wounds. “The terrorists torched a vigilance group vehicle, they also destroyed part of the council secretariat, divisional police station and a military base before they were repelled,” he said. He said a policeman was killed and another injured during the gun battle. NAN reports that a terrorist attack on Babangida town on Saturday evening led to the destruction of some government assets, causing panic among the residents. Also, troops of Operation Fire Ball have inflicted heavy casualty on Boko Haram/Islamic States for West Africa Province (ISWAP) terrorists killing 16 in recent encounters in the Northeast. Acting Director, Defence Media Operations, Brig.-Gen. Bernard Onyeuko, in a statement yesterday, said a subsidiary operation launched under Operation Lafiya Dole was launched to root out remnants of terrorists. Onyeuko said that four gun trucks belonging to the terrorists were destroyed while a large cache of arms and ammunition were recovered during the various encounters. He said troops had on October 21 noticed unusual vehicles tailing the convoy of vehicles conveying Internally Displaced Persons from Maiduguri Cosmopolitan City to Baga town in order to infiltrate their position. He said troops inflicted heavy casualties on them by killing three terrorists and destroyed one gun truck, adding that one anti-aircraft gun, three AK47 rifles, three shells for making Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) were also recovered.