 It is no longer news that the Coronavirus pandemic crippled activities across the world. All the sectors of the economy, including education as well as other were not left in Nigeria. The government ordered a lockdown, including closure of schools from the primary to tertiary level, to prevent outbreak of the virus. With the relaxation of the lockdown, which lasted for about six months, the Federal Government last month gave the approval for tertiary institutions to resume across the federation. Against this backdrop, some have resumed while others have fixed dates for resumption. However, it is not business as usual as they have to comply with laid-down safety guidelines and protocols and the ‘New Normal’. The guidelines are that schools should provide wash hand basins, sanitizers and ensure the observation of social distancing on campus. Also, facemasks are to be used by everyone including members of staff, students and visitors in addition to washing their hands and using sanitizers while maintaining social distancing. Some students who have resumed recount their experiences and how they are coping with safety protocols. For Fayemi Gbenga, a Mass Communication student of Ire Poly, Osun State, adapting to the new system has been very difficult. He noted that he would adapt with time. He said: “ It is really hard  for me  to  adapt to the new system. Most times, I forget my nose mask at home and would be at the school entrance already before remembering that I didn’t have it on me. Even  in school, maintaining social distancing with my friends is difficult, but as time goes on I will get used to it.” In like manner, Philip Faith, a Business Administration student of Moshood Abiola Polytechnic, Abeokuta, Ogun State (MAPOLY), abandoning old habits has not been easy. She said it would take a great deal of time to adjust. “It will  really take time for me to get along with the  new guidelines set down. It is not really easy letting go of old habits. Maintaining social distance with my coursemates and   friends  has been tough.We often  hug and shake hands before realising we have not adhered to the guidelines,” she said. Samuel Tunmise, a  HND 2 Mass Communication student of   Polytechnic Ilaro, Ogun State, is getting accustomed to the new norms after he has been sent home three times to pick his nose mask. He said: “I have already learnt to use the nose mask and keep it with me wherever I go. I also try as much as possible to maintain social distance from my friends as that can curb the virus from spreading. However, it does not always work out with my friends as sometimes we maee body contact before remembering.” For Ogunyemi  Titilayo, a  HND 2 student of The Polytechnic, Ibadan, it has been a herculean task but she would adapt in the long run. She  said: “It is just a matter of time to get along with the new guidelines. Right now, I am already used to using and carrying along my nose mask wherever I go. I also try as much as possible not to have contact with people, especially my coursemates and close friends. It is  really not easy but with time every one will adapt.” While complaining about having to adhere strictly to the guidelines, Ojedokun Isimi, an ND  2  student of  Ire Polytechnic, Osun State, said: “Putting on nose mask constantly doesn’t go well with me. I  find it hard to breathe when I use it. I wouldn’t  have bothered  using it at all if not for the fact that the school management made it compulsory.” Similarly, Igwe Kingsley, a student of Polytechnic, Ilaro, said most times he found it difficult to breathe when he used his nose mask. However, he has been maintaining social distance among his friends. He said: “Usually, I forget to use nose mask, but when I do, it makes me uncomfortable. I find it hard to breathe. Besides that, I have adhered strictly to the social distancing rule.” A student of  Lagos State University (LASU), Tope Olalere, said though the guidelines were aimed at containing the spread of the coronavirus, it hasn’t been easy at all. He said: “What is not being done before has  suddenly become so essential and compulsory to people in their day-to-day activities. I have tried as much as I can to do my part in making sure I have my nose mask on every where I go and avoid social gatherings.” For Akinwunmi Temiloluwa, another student of  MAPOLY, adapting to the new system of wearing face  masks and keeping social distance with people wouldn’t have been possible for her if  the school hadn’t  made it compulsory. Solomon Dorcas, a HND 2 student of  Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH), said using face mask, washing of hands, ensuring social distancing regularly were not easy. “ It seemed impossible  for me, but with time I got used to it. I learnt to use my face mask every where I go and also avoided people in a gathering.” Another student of Ire Polytechnic, Odewumi Yetunde,  noted that she would have loved to use nose masks and adhere to safety protocols, but she was finding it difficult to adapt within a short time. She said: “I often have breathing problem whenever I use nose mask for a very long time. I don’t find it comfortable at all. So, the use of the nose mask won’t really work out for people who encounter breathing problems.” Sunday Timileyin, a student of The Polytechnic, Ibadan, said he had adapted to the new safety rules. According to him, wearing face mask and keeping social distance have become part him even before resumption. “I already added the rules to my daily routine. This process is just to safeguard every one on campus against the deadly disease and I implore others to get used to the idea,” he said. In the same vein, Jumoke Ogunsina, a student of Lagos State University, noted that adapting to the rules was not tough for her because she likes to maintain rules of hygiene. She said: “I have found it easy because as an individual I like to adhere to rules of proper hygiene. I have always taken care of myself even before the pandemic struck. So, for me, it is just normal.” Peter Prosper, ND 2 Public Administration, Ire Polytechnic, said: “Definitely, it hasn’t been easy. What I am not accustomed to has suddenly become the norm. Having to use face mask to school all day, making sure there is social distancing among friends and coursemates has been tough to say the least. That the school management made it mandatory allowed students to force themselves to adapt.” David Oluwakunle, a  Mass Communication student of Moshood Abiola Polytechnic,  said adhering strictly to the protocols had been hard for him. “ Using a face mask daily when going to school is not really easy. At times, I would be at the school entrance before I notice that I didn’t have face mask; and most times, I am denied entry because of that. Even on the campus, I will still have to maintain social distance with friends. It doesn’t always work out because I am used to being close physically with my friends,” he noted. For Quadri Toheeb, a student of Business Administration at the Lagos State Polytechnic, taking the face mask wherever he goes is really problematic for him because he has not fully adapted to the new system. He said: “First of all, taking the face mask along with me wherever I go still seems difficult and problematic. Often, I forget it at home. I would have got to the school gate before I notice I have left it at home. It will take time before I get used to it. It hasn’t being easy also to avoid social gatherings, maintain social distance with my coursemates and close friends. In fact,  my friends and I would have had  physical contact with each other before we thinking of social distancing.”