Victor Ola, has been supporting people to join him in Canada since he relocated over a decade now. He has been able to prove that the IELTS exam is not needed to study, work in Canada and travel agents are not needed to get Visa approval. His journey to helping people relocate to Canada started when he went to Canada for his studies and discovered that many people have been getting it all wrong. He has had a lot of experiences and has even gotten into the hands of scammers, hence, his fight against using travel agents to process your Canadian visa application process. He conducts a free webinar training where he teaches people how to apply to study in Canada by themselves without wasting money on IELTS or other things. He was also opportune to study for free in Canada; with his knowledge of how to get fully funded scholarships to study in Canada, he has changed many people’s stories. One of his students, Mr Hassan got admission to study at Thompson Rivers University. Below is his testimony:  Another Student named Michael Ayibasa was thankful after he supported him to study in Regina University  Contrary to what you’ve always heard about travelling to Canada with your family, it is actually not difficult if you know what you are doing. Victor Ola is holding a webinar training and you will be learning how to travel to Canada for your studies either individually or with your family if you join the free webinar here and see many more student who has successfully relocated === > https://noieltstocanada.com/ Victor Ola is all about doing it yourself. All the information you need to do it yourself is in his free webinar. Some of the things you will learn at the webinar includes but is not limited to the following:     Click this link to register for the free webinar now == > https://noieltstocanada.com/ The TRAINING will show you most Reliable and Shortest Way To Live, Study and Work Permanently in Canada without writing IELTS exam or paying huge money to Travel Agent All your questions and concerns about this reliable pathway will be answered in the Video class so watch till the end because you’ll get my WhatsApp number. Click on this link to know more == > https://noieltstocanada.com/ This will work for you only if you are between Age 18 to 50, you need minimum of WAEC/NECO/ND/NCE/KCSE/Grade 12 or equivalent as minimum requirement, You don’t need WES evaluation or any form of ECA for this Study-Work-Permanent Residence Pathway and you don’t need to know someone in Canada. Join my webinar training now by Clicking on this link == > https://noieltstocanada.com/ Webtags:  ielts 4.5 accepted in universities in canada,  without ielts study visa countries list 2020, scholarship without ielts requirement, canada immigration without ielts 2020, study in canada without ielts from nigeria, study masters in canada for free, study abroad fully funded scholarships, is ielts compulsory for canada student visa, which university does not require ielts in canada, canada study permit without ielts, how to go canada without ielts The best time to start your relocation process to Canada is now, The longer you wait, the harder it becomes!!!