Business owners operating around Apapa,   Lagos will soon heave a sigh of relief , as indigenous  firm, International Bulk Cargo Logistics  (IBCL) has announced the development of a Container Terminal at Itori, Ogun State. The aim is  to decongest the Lagos  port. The terminal, according to the IBCL Chief Executive Officer, Luqmon Babalola, is expected to begin operation within the next three months. It would enjoy the advantage of receiving containers, right on discharge from ships by rail and delivering the same within hours at the terminal. The terminal, which is located in the middle of Ewekoro, currently hosting the Wapco Cement and the Dangote Group, is also expected to metamorphose into a bonded terminal; and play all the roles of a dry port. Enumerating  the advantages of the terminal at Itori, the IBCL Business Development Coordinator, Maryann Ihejirika noted that the terminal occupies a land space in a remarkably safe haven, with highly business-friendly and hospitable people, easily accessible from Ibadan Abeokuta and Shagamu, under two hours.  The Business Development Coordinator specifically identified the following: According to her, the terminal A as designed has a capacity to hold 3,000 – 4,000 tons containers. IBC Logistics can evacuate up to 150 teu containers from the port to/from our facility under the 24 hours operation agreement with MRC. ‘Our haulage operations cover the whole country, while delivery to clients within proximity to our Itori facility to destinations such as Ota, Agbara, Abeokuta, Sango, Sagamu and Ikeja are achieved in a record time of less than 24 hours upon arrival in our facility. IBC Bonded Tenninal will enable our clients to clear their cargoes at our facility in maximum 24 hours. As soon as the construction of the bonded terminal is completed, lBCL will apply for Inland Container Terminal Status so that our clients are able to use the terminal as Port of Destination. The present congestion at the ports in Nigeria is causing serious operational headaches for importers and shipping companies and clients. Client can take advantage of our terminal to attract more clients with a reduction in time of clearing. Cheaper means of transportation and near-zero demurrage to importers on overtime containers and excessive equipment hire.”. Speaking further, the  IBCL Business Development Coordinator, said “Clients with immediate effect can store their empty containers on this facility as soon as the repairs on the rail tracks in the Apapa wharf are completed by November 2020. This will be done at cheaper rates from what is obtainable currently and kindly note that transporting them to the port will take 48hrs before the arrival of an export ship or during the discharge of imported cargoes. Speaking further, the CEO, Mr. Babalola assured the Nigerian business class that the Itori Container Terminal would soon curb the port congestion in the Lagos ports, as everything would be done to ensure timely project completion. 