 WHAT is your assessment on the performance of the country’s Information and Communications Technology (ICT) sector towards the country’s GDP growth? I think that is a very good question. I think since the beginning of this lockdown, the ICT has been the major economy player that is contributing to the economy of this our great country as it has been sustaining our economy positively. You know when everybody was out of jobs, under lockdown, staying at home, you won’t believe that in the first two weeks, three weeks, we were all depending on the telcoms sector for survival as everything were going on online, data being bought, air time being used since we cannot move around. It has contributed immensely in the growth of our gross diomestic product (GDP). According to my findings, it is over 14 per cent in the early quarters of the year that the ICT contributed to our GDP. So, the ICT has been the one driving the economy because you don’t need to go out before you do anything. They can do anything provided it is online services. Unlike agriculture, food production, you have to go out and provide their services. But this one, you can do it online. So ICT has contributed to the growth of the economy. Considering the new tariff increase in electricity and petroleum products, do you anticipate increase in calls rates, data and airtime pricing from telcos and related sectors? Yes, the way I’m looking at it, all the telecoms companies are not operating outside Nigeria rather they are operating within the Nigerian economy. And of course, when the cost of production is increased, it will affect them unilaterally, on how much the price of data or airtime, it will affect periodically. When there is action, there will be corresponding reaction and that is what will affect the cost or the price the telcos is giving to his consumers because in the course of all this, they need electricity to run their businesses and the cost of electricity tariff has increased. They need to move around with fuel despite the pump price increment so they need these services for business growth and expansion. And once all these energy costs are included in their cost of production, it will be transferred to the final consumer automatically. What is your company bringing on board to Nigerian business environment? Top Up And Get Reward (TGR) Limited is a registered company that started her operation since November 15, 2018. It is a company established to eradicate poverty by even distribution of economic wealth to all partners of our great company; locally and globally through reselling of telecoms products using technology advantage. I tell you, anything is possible when we are connected, this stems from our company’s core belief that everyone deserves the benefits of a modern, connected life. TGR is a company that is floated with curiosity about why many Nigerians especially unemployed and underemployed are finding it extremely difficult to live up to their desired dreams. I carried out a research to know whether Nigeria is a dry and poor country. It is a country in which we can all live big and enjoy. It is all about humility and readiness to put in little efforts, the end result will be amazing. What is the economic value of your products in the telecom sector towards leveraging on low earner’s status? Telecoms industries among others are good companies that we can ride on their products to have fair share of the telecoms profit to better the lots of millions of Nigerians. It is a business of kobo and kobo which can effectively transform someone’s life to his dreamed life style. Nigeria is a populace of over 200 million people. If one can effectively have only 20,000 people interconnected under one’s network and one is getting N1.50k daily from their activities. Such a person will be making an average of N900, 000 per month and N10.8 million annually. We need to understand that 20,000 Nigerians is 0.01 per cent of the entire population of our great country Nigeria. With this analysis you can imagine how much money is exchanging hands daily. It is time we humbled ourselves and build our future and live a better life. I am not sure we should only humble ourselves abroad to make our lives meaningful by taking any job. We can also do same here and improve our financial status. TGR platform has started producing millionaires since the beginning of Covid-19. When nearly all businesses failed during Covid-19, it was only telecoms companies that kept flourishing. Besides, being a member of TGR will enable an individual to continually get commission on every purchase of all telecoms products (airtime and mobile data) together with a fair share on electricity bill payments. Every member is interconnected to one another; this makes it feasible for every member to get commission from the transaction of other members in TGR. At least ten members will benefit from a single transaction of a member. We can imagine how frequently people buy both airtime and data every day. These products are not negotiable; you might discover that most Nigerians would prefer to miss their lunch instead of being offline for some minutes. Being a member will make you to consistently get commissions from telecom products whether you are awake or you are sleeping since purchase of airtime and data is done every minute. 