Former Lagos Commissioner for Home Affairs Dr AbdulHakeem AbdulLateef has resigned from the All Progressives Congress (APC). In his Independence Day message, AbdulLateef said his decision was due to rejection of his movement by some “close leaders” he respected in the party. The one-time lawmaker launched Iyepe 2023 on Tuesday, a movement to galvanise Lagosians to develop more interest in politics and curb voter’s apathy. The action led to termination of his appointment as Special Adviser to Speaker Mudasiru Obasa on Religious Affairs. AbdulLateef thanked Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who he described as a great leader who fought tenaciously for democracy. “When I joined politics, he was there for me and assisted me greatly to occupy very enviable positions in the government. He has developed so many other individuals in very many capacities. May Allah reward you abundantly,” he said. He also praised Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Speaker Mudasiru Obasa, other leaders of the party and the past Governors he worked with. He apologised to those he may have offended while switching support due to party loyalty. “To all other members of our party including my mentor Otunba Oladele Ajomale and the state Chairman of our party, Alhaji Tunde Balogun, I pray that may our Lord continue to be with you,” he said. According to him, the movement – IYEPE 2023 was launched “because I believe that the constitution allows freedom of expression and the rights of all citizens to participate in bringing about the needed transformation in all sectors of the economy. “I am an indigene of Lagos state and an Awori by birth. I, therefore, have a duty to take positive steps including admonitions and practical reorientation of our people towards the ideal society we crave for. “My desire is to win the pleasure of my Lord which no political position can replace and that is why I am not desperate. I will be totally fulfilled when I am able to make efforts to enlighten our people about good governance, welfarism, the growth and development of the youth, the care of the elderly, the growth of the private sector, the ideals of constitutional democracy and better lifestyles for the leaders and the led. “This movement has been rejected by some close leaders I respect. I have, therefore decided to leave the party in order not to create disunity within the party. Please do not persecute or victimise my followers who have chosen to stay in APC. I leave them all in the care of the Lord. I am more concerned about paradise and I am not afraid of death. I will continue to preach the word of God and invite all Nigerians regardless of their religions, colour and race to be determined to be different. We cannot continue this way.”