 ABIA State Governor Okezie Ikpeazu has assured the residents that his administration will revive moribund industries across the state. Ikpeazu spoke as the special guest of honour at a stakeholders’ validation workshop on Abia State Industrial Policy and Strategy at the Michael Okpara Auditorium in Umuahia, the state capital. The workshop was organised in conjunction with the United Nations Industrial Development Organisation (UNIDO). The governor sought the support of the House of Assembly to ensure that the policy sails through. Ikpeazu, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Chris Ezem, said: “This draft document, as soon as it is executed, will form the policy thrust for Abia State with respect to industries. I want to assure you that government will implement it to the latter all that is in that document once it is executed. “This programme is key to us. It is very important because we don’t want to just bring out a document, strike out a policy thrust statement and pass it on to everybody. “What we are doing is to have the understanding and input of everybody – from all nooks and crannies of the industrial community – so that it can be part of this embracing document, which will form the policy thrust of Abia State with respect to industries. “I know that today, we are doing a lot in the area of leather and garment clusters. We are doing so much in the area of shoe factory, and Enyimba Economic City. The Golden Guinea is on course today. We are working very hard to ensure that the Glass Industry is revived. We believe that the Modern Ceramics, in no distant time, will come back to operation, just like the Golden Guinea. “The government is equally not relenting in that area. The Commissioner for Agriculture, at the last Exco meeting, was given a marching order to do everything we need to do to shore up our stake with respect to our investment in the area of agriculture. “We know this is the way to go. We know what the crude oil market is doing today and we know that the best way to go is to sustain ourselves in the area of food by making sure that we support farmers and all the stakeholders in agricultural business. “In the area of waste management, I can tell you that we are not losing sight in that direction. We have a lot of proposals in that area. We want to get those that have the competence and operational reason to take waste to wealth. “I can assure you that in no distant time, the government will be entering into an agreement with one of the companies that we have in that area.”  