Our founding fathers had difficulties negotiating the terms of our independence. The result was that 60 years ago, we projected the image of a divided nation and not that of a united country. In London where I served, and where we celebrated independence, we had four legations. The Western Agent General’s office with Chief Akitoye Coker from Abeokuta as Agent General; the Eastern Agent General’s office with Mazi Jonah Achara from Umuahia as Agent General; the Northern Agent General’s office with Alhaji Sa’adu Alanamu from Ilorin as Agent General; and the Nigeria High Commission with Alhaji Abdulmaliki Atta from Okene as the High Commissioner. We projected the image of an enfeebled nation; of a divided country. It was not the image expected of a strong united black African country. At home, it was worse. A regional and not the national vision prevailed. The idealism of ‘One-Nigeria’ gave way to a much narrower functional vision of regionalism. We embarked at independence on a journey with little awareness of our being one people, one nation. It was evident, that Nigeria was built on a rickety foundation. We rushed to build along our fault-lines. We consciously widened and deepened our cleavages, instead of narrowing or bridging them. From three regions, we furtively crept into four. From four to 12, and then, we graduated into 36, sowing seeds of fission and distrust along the way. It was not as if these incremental leaps were motivated or borne out of good-will or were carefully calculated to glue the nation together. They were essentially, if the truth must be acknowledged, the product of greed, malice, vengeance, sectional and parochial maneuverings and personal ambitions. We bonded more as a people when we were four regions – the Mid-West, the Northern, the Eastern and Western regions – than we now do when we are 36 states. If, as the advocates maintain that states creation was meant to promote development, may I ask; where now is the evidence of development? The end result as we now know and see, staring us clearly in the face, is that our internal fissions have widened and deepened.  Far from our being the flying eagle of our dream or the Giant of Africa we had aspired to be, we have all now become sitting ducks. Sitting ducks to a multiplicity of insecurities manifested in the triumph of mediocrity over merit; decay of infrastructures in almost all sectors: power, roads, houses, public transportation, water, jobs and industries. Deeply more worrying, is the tragic and hideous cost in property and lives.  We do not know or identify who the enemies are. Are they from within or outside our country? However, not all has been gloomy. There have been many bright spots; but have they been enough? We are now witnessing the rebirth of tribalism in the country. It was rife in the early 40s, during my boyhood days in Lagos, in the days of the nationalist movement and struggle for independence. Soon thereafter, tribalism became an ugly, demeaning word and epithet. Being described as a detribalized Nigerian was a mark of high honour. No one wanted to be labeled a tribalist, or even worse, an arch tribalist. It has now, once again, reared its head transmuted into camouflaged concepts and lingo. Let us now briefly touch on a few burning issues of our time. Our constitution, as imperfect as it may be in parts, is not really the main problem. There is never a perfect constitution anywhere in the world. The problem is how, in spite of its imperfections, we relate to one another; whether when raising weighty issues like restructuring, resource control, true federalism and herdsmen- farmers clashes. All these issues must squarely be placed on the table for serious scrutiny and solution. Where there is the will and an open mind to discuss and accommodate each other’s’ point of view, there is no problem that is impossible of a compromise solution. Where the problem really lies is in closing and slamming the doors to discussion. Weakness lies in having a close mind. Strength, in keeping an open mind. Eventually, through dialogue, a solution acceptable to all would be found; but never expect it to be a perfect solution. There is no perfection in life. Can we increase the number of skilled vocational institutions along the length and breadth of this country to soak in school and non-school leavers, thus making them employable in an era of declining industries which must be boosted?  Can we also, take a second look at some of our national policies like the quota system in education that creates arbitrary cut off marks for students from various states even in the same schools, as basis for admission into federal and state educational institutions? This discriminatory practice invariably creates a feeling of inequality and unfairness and may permanently affect children’s psyche at a very tender age. Can we tactfully and most respectfully beam some delicate light on the constitutional role of the Council of State and how it is functioning? Should we also do the same thing with the role of the revered spouses of Heads of State and state governors? Can we declare as completely unacceptable, if not abominable, entrusting to a handful of Nigerians, ownership of oil-wells which should, with patriotic management, belong to all? May I suggest such ownership be revoked? Can we enact and enforce the most draconian laws to punish treasury looters in high places; sparing none, whoever they may be? These should be handsome and welcome gifts to Nigerians as we mark the 60th Anniversary of our independence: much more rewarding than the palliative hand-outs! Another area of intense interest is religion, which is one of our obvious fault lines.  Admittedly, it is a difficult, complex, sensitive, delicate and inflammatory issue, in a gaping multi-religious nation like ours. That is precisely why we should strenuously strive to narrow the gap between the faithful beyond what is now currently done.  A desperate problem requires a desperate solution. We must find a way forward. We should encourage experimentation in Christians and Muslims worshiping together.  To incubate this idea, I find appealing the concept of two faiths under one roof. I am not necessarily talking here about sharing prayers perfunctorily, as we now do, on purely ceremonial occasions? Can mutually acceptable forms of worship be crafted by divinely inspired religious scholars and leaders to promote increasing religious harmony, leading to peace, love and national cohesion? I hope I am not hovering at the fringes of blasphemy on both sides of the divide; but let us, at least, try – try, try again for the sake of country. Now, a peep into the area of our foreign policy. We should work towards a balanced, co-ordinated approach, and harness the instruments of foreign policy to build a strong, united country. There is hardly any need restating the obvious about the complementarity of a nation’s domestic policy and its external efforts. The two are inextricably interwoven and impact one on the other. Our external image needs to be refurbished and reinvigorated. Could we have, for instance, done more when, recently, we were presented with the unique opportunity, as the most populous black nation on earth, to add our voice to the protestation of the ‘Black Life Matters Movement’? Why did we remain docile, frozen and bogged down by our own inertia, whatever the reasons? Many have talked about the pivotal role of leadership in the transformation of a nation. I strongly believe in the lofty vision of a strong, disciplined, inspirational leadership that will drive the democratic process forward, cleanse it, stabilize it and unite the nation. I believe in a leadership which embraces all in equal terms. As an advocate of a strong, united country, my vision of leadership cannot be myopic; does not have room for nepotism, and cannot tolerate parochialism. Such practices wear and tear down the very fabric of a nation. It is manifestly unfair. It is wrong. It is morally wrong.  It is corruption in its most reprehensible form; akin to the looting of public funds by those entrusted with it for the welfare of the citizenry; or the denigration of the temples of justice; or the betrayal of trust in the hallowed places of worship in the land. Finally, taking all these into consideration, I remain hopeful that we can still fly as an eagle; and be the giant we are destined to be as a nation. God bless our country. Happy Independence Day. 