Ebonyi Governor David Umahi has sacked one of his security aides and three grassroot coordinators over the recent destruction of police stations and other properties in their domains. A statement by the Secretary to the State Government, Kenneth Ugbala, on Sunday said the Special Assistant on Security and Utility(Urban), Saint Nchekwube Aniakor and three Development Centre Coordinators have been releived of their duties immediately The sacked coordinators include Amos Ogbonnaya of Anuagata Development Centre; Mr. Jerry Okorie Ude of Okposi Development Centre and Mrs. Martha Nwankwo ofOhaozara-East Development Center. The three development centres are in Governor Umahi’s Ohaozara local government area where hoodlums attacked and burnt down police stations on Thursday. The hoodlums had also attacked about three other police stations in Abakaliki, the State capital on Wednesday, which is Aniakor’s domain. The hoodlums destroyed other utilities in the state capital especially the decorative street lights installed in various parts. Ụgbala said the Governor sacked the appointees in his avowed determination to secure the state and for their non-performance. The Governor, according to the statement, also appointed their replacements in acting capacities. They include: Mr Tochukwu Uzor for Anuagata Development Centre; Mr. Henry Ugochi Ovoke for Okposi Development Centre and Mr. Ernest Okorie for Ohaozara-East Development Center. Mr Chidiebere Egwu was also appointed as Special Assistant on Internal Security and Utility (Urban) to replace Aniakor. Ugbala said all the appointments are with immediate effect. “All the affected former officials are directed to hand over all government property in their possession to the Secretary to the State Government/Coordinating Commissioner before the close of work on Monday 26th of October 2020”, the statement added . Meanwhile, the Governor has directed banks in the state to re-open for businesses on Monday. Banks in the state had been shutdown following the violence and attacks on security agencies in the state by hoodlums in the aftermath of the #ENDSARS protests. Commissioner for Information, Uchenna Orji, in a statement said the directive followed a review of the security situation in the State with the Security Chiefs, Youth and Religious leaders. “The Governor assures all business owners in the state and the general public of their safety and urges them to freely go about their lawful businesses as the situation is under control,” Orji said.