President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday urged the electorate to vote for Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu (SAN) who is seeking re-election on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Saturday’s poll. He said the governor deserved a second term, owing to what he described as his indigenous approach to governance and performance within the limit of available resources. President Buhari reiterated his commitment to a credible election and to play by the rules. As political parties rounded off their campaigns on Wednesday, Police Inspector-General Mohammed Adamu warned candidates and their followers against thurggery, violence and utterances that are inimical to a peaceful exercise. At the APC rally in Akure were 17 governors of APC including: Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos), Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti), Yahaya Bello (Kogi), Hope Uzodimma (Imo),  Abubakar Bagudu (Kebbi), Mohammed Inuwa Yahaya (Gombe ), Mohammed Baduru (Jigawa), Abdullahi Gaduje (Kano),  Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq (Kwara), Nasir El-rufai (Kaduna), Sanni Bello (Niger),  Gboyega Oyetola (Osun), Simon Lalong (Plateau), and Babagana Zulum (Norno). Also at the rally were  Petroleum Resources Minister Chief Timipre Sylva, Federal and state legislators, and other top party chieftains. President Buhari in a video message to party supporters at the final rally of the APC in Akure, the state capital, said all necessary measures have been put in place to ensure peaceful, transparent and credible election. He assured the electorate of adequate security to forestall any breach of the peace by unscrupulous elements. Urging the electorate to turn out en masse to vote on Saturday without fear of molestation, President Buhari expressed confidence that the party supporters would vote in accordance with the laws guiding the electoral process. He said: ‘’I have no doubt that our candidate is a good brand for the APC to market. I am particularly delighted by his ingenious approach to governance. ‘’His performance within the limits of available resources is endearing, just as he has taken the state to an enviable level and on the path of prosperity. ‘’Having had the privilege of commissioning some of his projects, which I consider enduring legacies, I join you here today to declare that Governor Akeredolu deserves to be re-elected to consolidate the good work he commenced in his first term. ‘’I am not just proud of his achievements; I am confident he will enjoy the mandate of the good people of Ondo State for the second term. ‘’I have taken a special interest, not necessarily because my party is involved but because my focus and attention have been to ensure that we maximize every given opportunity to raise the bar in our collective desire to deepen democracy.’’ President Buhari who commended the party’s national and zonal leadership for upholding internal democracy and ensuring a hitch-free party primary congratulated the APC family in Ondo State for uncommon display of brotherliness, candour and doggedness. “President Buhari also assured the electorate in Ondo of the provision of adequate security to forestall any breach of the peace by unscrupulous elements. Vice President Yemi Osibanjo, in a virtual speech, said Akeredolu is committed to the realization of the Ondo seaport. He listed roads projects executed by Akeredolu in different parts of the state. He said the interchange flyover at Ore, Odigbo local government has reduced accidents on the road. Fayemi, said all APC structures were united for the re-election of Akeredolu. He said there would be no re-run or controversy, adding that the party would win with a wide margin. Chairman of the National Campaign Council for Ondo election, Governor Sanwo-Olu, urged the electorate to vote without fear. 17 governors elected on the platform of the APC were present at the rally. Others were Ondo APC caucus in the National Assembly, members of the Ondo State House of Assembly including former APC governors in the South West. At the rally, Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello warned against attempts to intimidate Kogi State indigenes residing in Ondo State. He urged the Kogi indigenens to vote for Akeredolu. Bello said: “We are here to drum up support for Governor Akeredolu who has performed. He has performed in terms of infrastructure and good governance. We want continuity so that he can continue to deliver on his mandate. “It is going to be a landslide victory. Tell our opponents to relax and prepare for the next season. This season is ours we will not give it away. We do not make noise. The votes will make the noise for us.” Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodimma, urged Igbo to vote for the APC. He said Akeredolu had delivered on his promises in Agriculture, infrastructure and qualitative healthcare. Minister of Petroleum Resources Timipre Silva, said the Ijaws had been mobilised to vote for the APC. Silva said all the votes in the riverine communities would be delivered for Akeredolu. Also on Wednesday, the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP) admitted that its leader and former Ondo Governor Olusegun Mimiko met with former President Olusegun Obasanjo on a planned alliance with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). It said the talks did not yield any results after Mimiko told Obasanjo the true situation of things. ZLP National Chairman Dan Nwayanwu, stated this in a television interview monitored in Akure. Nwayanwu said Obasanjo was shocked after Mimiko told him some things. He insisted that the ZLP is going into Saturday’s poll to win. He said: “That is correct. Obasanjo met with Mimiko. Obasanjo was shocked about some things Mimiko told him. “We are already in the ballot. We are not in agreement with any party. The Ondo people want us back. They got dividend of democracy when Mimiko was there. Agboola Ajayi will win the election on Saturday.” In a statement by the Force Public Relations Officer, DCP Frank Mba, Police Inspector General Adamu said that the full weight of the law will be meted out to anyone, no matter their status in society, who engages in any electoral fraud, including violence, vote buying, ballot box snatching and hate speeches.