 IT is another landmark for Nigeria in the comity of nations. But it should be apparent to any keen observer that this diamond jubilee is not unequivocally different from the previous milestones. Indeed, going with the various comments in mainstream and social media in recent times, Nigeria appears to be beating a reverse gear on what many thoughtful people consider the most important priorities of national life, namely security and welfare of citizens. Going back to the middle of the first decade of the 4th republic, this column has made it an annual ritual to comment on the state of the nation on every anniversary of her independence. Ten years ago, the commentary was based on a dialogue I had with Opalaba who had expressed frustration about the achievement or lack of it of the nation at 50. In defence, I reiterated two important achievements of dear country: “Nigeria is at peace with herself and with her neighbors. Second, Nigeria has bounced back from being a pariah state to becoming a respected member of the world community.” My observation then was backed by available evidence. Of course, Nigeria in 2010 was not the proverbial paradise on earth. This column has always been critical of the security architecture of the nation, including calling attention to the growing challenges of armed robbery, cultism, and kidnapping. It is remarkable, however, that ten years ago, we still had a relatively peaceful country. At least, it was not a hellish abode that it is fast becoming before our eyes. How then is it that instead of making progress in the matter of securing the nation, we are retrogressing? My second point of defence of the nation against Opalaba’s criticism was that she had bounced back from a pariah state that she was during the military era and she was again becoming a respected member of the world community. Fast forward ten years, I still believe now that we are not what we were between 1984 and 1999. We are not a pariah state based on the form of government that we run. But we deceive ourselves if we believe that the world is not concerned about the state of our union and our capacity for managing our differences? Consider the many travel alerts issued by Western countries. In the last five weeks, this column has zeroed in on our various social institutions, including politics, religion, values and morals, law and order, and justice. The purpose of this exercise was to have an understanding of the weak links in our social-political existence. As it turns out, we have enormous challenges with the functioning of these institutions. And ten years ago, Opalaba’s diagnosis was prescient. Resisting my defence of the nation at 50, in his characteristic caustic bluntness, my friend noted thus: “Two inadequacies bedeviled Nigeria at independence and still impede the progressive development of the country 50 years later: Leadership and structure. Without a determined effort to address and redress the anomalies created by these, I do not see the country coming out of baby diapers in the next 50 years.” Ouch! Baby diapers? 50 years? He was uncouth. But I admit that there was, and still is, a kernel of truth, as bitter as it tastes, in my friend’s observations. With regard to the social institutions that I examined in recent weeks, one common thread in the matter of the dysfunction each of them displayed, the weak link in the chain of every one of them, is leadership. In politics, this is crystal clear, though leadership is far from being the sole determinant of the tragedy of our political institution. But if we are to solve the challenge, we need a new tool of analysis and a new focal lens to beam our searchlight on what it is and what ails it. Hitherto, our focus on leadership has concentrated attention on the central government and whoever occupies the highest seat of power. This conforms well to the understanding that the buck stops at the desk of the president. Added to this trite saying is that, in our case, we have a unitary system in federal garb with the presidency appearing as the be-all and end-all of our politics. If this is the case, the blame for where we are since at least the beginning of our new life in 1999 should be shared between the foursome of Obasanjo, Yar’Adua, Jonathan, and Buhari. But we all know it is more complex than that. The president is the overall leader of the nation. But there is a lot that he/she doesn’t have control over. The National Assembly (NASS) is made up of representatives freely chosen by the people. The members are equal partners in the governance of the nation. They share responsibility in budget making and approval. They make laws for good governance and can override a presidential veto. They have oversight functions on the agencies and departments of the executive. Their powers are enormous. In short, the National Assembly has leadership roles that cannot be brushed aside. The judiciary, on its part, is also an independent branch of government responsible for the interpretation of the law and for dispensing justice according to the letter and spirit of the constitution. While NASS serves as a check on the powers of the executive, the judiciary serves as a bulwark against the excesses of both the executive and NASS; and as the protector of the common citizen against the rich and powerful. Therefore, its leadership role, collectively and severally, is beyond doubt. We know all these. But what do we know about the way the discharge of these leadership roles has played out in real life? How often has our NASS only served as a rubber stamp for executive abuse of power? How many times has the judiciary been a willing tool in the hands of the executive? The challenges of the country are cumulative and, over the years, we have only been going from one depth of despair to another valley of hopelessness simply because leaders, in all these spheres, have failed to demonstrate their fitness for the job they fiercely sought and received.  In some cases, many have prioritized primordial attachments over the good of the nation. In others, it is religion. And in many cases yet, it is selfish greed that has been dominant in thought and practice. Multiply these over state and local governments and you’d appreciate the enormity of our national malaise. Lest anyone thinks that government functionaries have a monopoly of blame for our detestable condition, we should know that what ails them is the same malady that afflicts the leadership of quasi- and non-governmental agencies, including the educational sector as well as the private sector. Not many citizens would disagree with the observations above. Leadership matters. On this, however, this column has always also gone further to underscore the equally important challenge of followership. People get the leadership that they deserve. In a democracy, leaders impose themselves almost always with the connivance of followers. They use people to disrupt elections. Citizens take money and sell their votes. Voters return to office over and over again those who have disappointed them many times over. Who, then, is to blame for failure of leadership? Since its debut, this column has been in the forefront of the restructuring vanguard. It has stressed the need to pay attention to the warped structure that we have had since 1966. To no avail. Now, we are hearing a different lyric from the creative voices of Nigerians. They insist that it is past restructuring. Now, from the Southeast to the Southsouth and, lately, the Southwest, the battle cry of peaceful disintegration has rent the air of dear country. The driving force for this renewed agitation includes insecurity, abject poverty, structural imbalance and its attendant marginalization. Can and will leadership at all levels rise to the occasion and resolve these national problems before it is too late? Time will tell. However, one hopes that no one is deluded into thinking that the agitation will cease without urgent, meaningful and effective changes. Happy 60th Birthday, Nigeria!           