Tired of the hustle and bustle of Lagos, the Redemption Camp, a massive residential enclave, provides succor and rest amid spiritual uplifting, writes BUKOLA OLAJIDE It started off as a small place on the Lagos/Ibadan Expressway about 35 years ago. The Redemption Camp’s growth now has the reputation of being the largest Christian estate in the world. Sitting on 1,687 hectares of land, the community of Christians has different exciting places in it that can make it function as a local government in Nigeria. With beautiful edifices springing up weekly, Redemption Camp has over 15 residential estates with over 7000 houses, a mega amusement park known as Emmanuel park, a post office, events centres, a television studio (Dove Television) and two radio studios (RCCG Radio and Liveway Radio). At the inception, the camp had only one street called Holiness Road, which had only one brick house that was inhabited by the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) General Overseer Pastor E.A Adeboye and his family. This little edifice has now been remodeled into a major tourist site and an impartation centre for congregants. Popularly known as Open Heavens International Centre, the place has curators/tour guides who take tourists round the library, bedroom and prayer room of the Pastor Adeboye and his wife, and a gallery section that shows his life and times in the last 78 years.  Also, on Holiness Road is a branch of Tantaliser’s fast food and other eateries serving the community. The Director of the Camp Management office, Pastor O. Elufowoju, said the camp’s existence since 1983 has contributed immensely to the industrialisation in Ogun State. According to him, only spiritual activities were initially meant to hold there but as time went by, the church saw the importance of meeting other needs of its members (apart from spiritual) who were then trouping in to work and reside in the camp. This informed the decision to establish the Christ Redeemer’s Ministries, the arm of the Redeemed Christian Church of God that is saddled with the responsibility of running and managing businesses in the camp. Their operations have brought about the proliferation of banks, establishment of chalets and lodges and shopping complexes. Other businesses in the camp include CRM Press, Redemption Water, CRM Bakery, CRM Supermarket, various restaurants and stores owned by members of the church. Elufowoju also stated that the emergence of the church in Ogun State brought about development in terms of electricity supply, road construction to Mowe and Ofada, development to Shimawa, Likosi and Ogijo (a town that leads one into Ikorodu, Lagos State) which real estate companies are taking advantage of. The new Camp manager, Pastor Matthew Olaade, said the church bought those lands to be able to construct the road to ease commuting of worshippers in and out of the camp during her monthly and annual programmes. An E-banking specialist said: “About ten banks have their branches in the camp and this has been of great impact to the community and its environs. It makes financial transactions convenient and reduced the rate at which thieves steal from customers. We create job opportunities for technical staff such as cleaners and security men; we also give out loans to help families and businesses.” The impact of the church transcends geographical space in the sense that once it spreads it tentacles to a place, land begins to appreciate and real estate personnel use it to their advantage. However, the land allocated by the Church itself to its members is free of charge so long he or she provides evidence of being a bonafide tithe-paying member. The Head of Physical Planning and Development Control, Fola Sanusi,  said: “Land in the camp is free of charge but the major criteria for allocation is for the person to be a bonafide member of the church with an evidence provided through your pastors in charge of Parish, Area, Zone and Province. This letter must be signed by them with a cover letter addressed to the General Overseer.” Sanusi added that the leasing or rentage of property in the camp is highly prohibited. The acting Head of Electrical Generation and Distribution Services of RCCG, Pastor Obisesan Matthew, said the camp generates its electricity to salvage the erratic power supply from the Ibadan Electricity Company. Having started from using different generators, power supply evolved into the use of a 25 megawatt power plant generating through gas turbines. The Federal Government restraints the camp from supplying electricity to communities around it. Residents pay for the electricity supply through prepaid metering system, which is highly subsidised by the mission. On the working conditions in the camp, working professionally in the camp is better than working in a bureaucratic system where matters take too long to be resolved and workers have no access to the leader. The camp system makes it easy to reach anyone at the helm of affairs to get things done faster. Divine Styles Photography Studio Chief Executive Officer Tolulope Baiyewu said the camp’s constant supply of electricity and its topnotch security have contributed immensely to his company’s success and expansion. Another entrepreneur, Inwang Oyindasola, who is into branding of gift items and souvenirs, said the camp is a goldmine for her. “Over 65% of our customer base at Dassories Ltd is from Redemption Camp. We have been able to network with residents to spice up their ceremonial activities and events through our services,” she said. Unlike many places in Nigeria rid of good water supply, the camp has a dam, water treatment plant and storage tanks for distribution of water, which is free of charge as members are not levied to buy water at all. The place that used to be thick palm forests has metamorphosed into a haven of civilisation giving priority to education as it has two primary schools, a secondary school and a college of technology and management. In addition, the mission’s keen attention to the health of its members brought about the establishment of the Redeemers Health Centre (RHC) which has public health unit, immunisation unit, nursing unit, triage unit, children clinic, accident and emergency unit, dental unit, eye clinic, pharmacy, xray and ultrasound unit and a maternity centre.  According to Dr. Sola Ademilua, a resident and medical practitioner at the RHC, the establishment of the medical centre has benefitted the communities around the camp, serving up to Sagamu which is over 5 kilometres from the camp. “The health centre has been able to provide more job opportunities and has provided assessible health care to people in the camp and neighbouring communities too,” he said. Despite the developments springing up daily, some of the residents expressed their grievances about the present transportation system in the camp which had a complete overhauling during the pandemic. Before now, members were allowed to run their tricycle and shuttle business with a central control by the mission which made commuting easy for residents and guests. However, the tricycles have been eradicated and replaced with a limited number of shuttle buses, which, according to Mrs. Olayinka Mokwunye, a budding caterer, is not good for business or emergencies.  She appealed that the camp authorities should “increase number of shuttle buses and reinstate the operations of tricycles for easy flow of movement within the camp and its outskirt. They should also provide adequate security personnel for those living outside the camp like Lotto and the new estates around the new auditorium that belongs to the mission”. The Habitation of Hope, an arm of the mission established by the wife of the General Overseer, Pastor Mrs. Adeboye committed to rehabilitating hoodlums, is also an integral part of the camp. Its Student Affairs Officer, Mr. Oluwatowo Folarin, said: “The church is contributing her quota by helping to sanitise the Nigerian society. We take teenagers and youths off the street, saving them from become thugs and robbers, empowering them with vocational and technical skills and preaching the gospel to them.” Pastor Elufowoju stated that the church generates its fund from tithes, offerings and donations. “The church is not a business organisation so we use the money, that is, offerings of the people to ease the problem of the people. Some congregants also donate directly towards projects while some projects are personally funded by the General Overseer,” he said.