 IT was a very colourful event. Women dressed in shades of blue looking radiant and colourful. Venue was the installation of Mrs. Aderonke Rahmat Olarenwaju Solomon, wife of Senator Ganiyu Olarenwaju Solomon as the 14th District Chairman of district 912 at the Rotary center, Ikeja, GRA. The event kicked off with the call to order, song renditions and processions of the different groups of the ladies clad in shades of green looking glamorous. This culminated in the procession by the incoming district Chairman, Mrs Solomon with her husband and children to the podium where her citation being read and a video of some of the humanitarian activities carried out show. Next the Immediate past president, Bola Oyebade gave her account of stewardship urging others to join hands to make her tenure memorable by touching the lives of the vulnerable in society. Making a presentation of the theme for the year, titled: Lead the change team, Mrs Solomon read out her plan for the year and inducted her team. This was followed by the Inner Wheel Anthem as well as a presentation by the Guest Speaker , Mrs Abiola Olufunke Aberuagba. In this encounter with Yetunde Oladeinde, the newly installed District chairman who had contributed immensely to the hospitality sector takes you through her passion for humanity, empowering women and young people. “To God is the Glory, I feel great. It’s a mix feeling. We really plan to have a grand installation but we can’t blame God. When things come your way like this, you have to immediately plan your plan B and so we had to do a miniature installation. This is because if you have projects to do, we would definitely source for funds. And this is the only arena that you can source for funds.” Happily, she goes down memory lane to talk about COVID-19 and how her members are coping and mitigating the threats. “We are meeting people underground and everybody has been under the carpet of COVID-19. We had already planned what we wanted to do for the year without knowing that this was going to happen. When it happens, you just have to find the way out”. Solomon continued: “We assumed office July 1st and we have been doing fantastically well. We are still doing more and today we are launching six desktops for our beneficiaries. It will be given to those doing the Computer program at the Vocational Center at Amuwo Odofin”. Already they have twenty students as beneficiaries at the center at Amuwo Odofin. “So, we are launching six desktops today and this would add to those that are already there. So, that we would be able to meet up with the target. We still need more. That is why I am still soliciting for people to who have desktops, laptops to donate to us to add to what we have. At the end of the training, we plan to give the five best youths the laptops”. Solomon explained that: “I believe that it is better for you to be transparent, to let people know and they would know the needs and where to back up your plans. Our star project is going to be a very big one and by the special Grace of God, we would carry it out on our Inner Wheel day. On that day, we usually go to the hospitals, visit the first baby and then we would stop over and do our usual visits”. This year, it is going to be a different one and they would be donating phototherapy machines to health centers. “This is because sometimes the baby might be born with jaundice and by the time they are referring them to LUTH and other places, the baby might give up on the way. So, that is why we want to assist some hospitals in Lagos state with this machines .Also in some hospitals , they do not have enough beds, so they still put the babies besides the mothers and we want  to give some baby cots as well’. That is not all. “That day we are going to do trainings for the expectant mothers on hygiene and so many other things. These also include how to care for this baby as well as how to teach the baby, right from the womb. So, we are going to give them Mama and kids kits, and take away the burden from them. There are some people that cannot just afford all this and it is a very huge plan. So, that day we are going to donate all this things to them. Here we are looking at 100 mothers as beneficiaries for this project”. She added: “There is so much to do right now. We have a song that I really love and I would say come and join us to make a difference. Together we can lead the change. Together we can make the world a better place, together we can make the world strong. If you have any woman who is passionate to serve, it is the place to be. It is a voluntary organisation and if you love charity that is where to be. That is what God loves most, HE loves charity. So, if you join us to join hands together we would do more and it would extend to so many less fortunate people in the society.” Just before she leaves, Solomon talked about the contributions of Nigerian women in diaspora to the organisation. “We also have women in the Diaspora that are committed. We have active members as well as those we call active, but silent members, who use their time and resources for charity. So, if you join us we would assess you, your business and see if you are somebody that cannot be coming. However, we only have our meetings once a month, if you are available, we have our meetings together. If not, you send whatever you have to me. It is good to serve; when you serve you get fulfilled”. She added: “You don’t wait until it is big before you serve, don’t wait for something big before you stretch hands to people. Sometimes, it is not even money; it could be counseling, lectures. When we went to Ikorodu, there was an old man that needed to be touched. I was the one that dressed him up, He had stroke and I even taught him how to wear his facemask, when people come visiting. So, that is the interesting journey in Inner wheel. I also gave them palliatives that can last them for one month or more”.   