 THESE are agonizing times for manufacturers. Since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic and the slump in oil prices, the manufacturing sector upon which Nigeria anchored her hopes of diversifying the economy and creating jobs has been gasping for breath, requiring a comprehensive and integrated support system from the government to nurse it back to health. At present, virtually all the indices that gauge the sector’s performance and by extension, the overall economy have been on a downward trend, reinforcing the urgent need for more proactive initiatives as against reactive approaches to navigating the current challenging times foisted on manufacturers by the double shocks of the COVID-19 pandemic and the crash in oil prices. For instance, the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) CEO Confidence Index (MCCI) fell significantly to 44.4 points in the first quarter of 2020 as against 51.9 points recorded in the fourth quarter of 2019, affirming the negative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the confidence of manufacturers in the period. MCCI is a quarterly report by MAN. It was launched in the first quarter of 2019 as tool to gauge the perception of CEOs of member companies on the economy and the state of the manufacturing sector using pre-determined factors, economic policies and operating environment parameters. The MCCI measures CEOs’ pulse on the economy with a view to ascertaining their level of confidence in the prevailing economic policies, regulatory guidelines and manufacturing operating environment in Nigeria. It averaged 51.2 points in 2019, indicating a meagre 1.2 points above the 50-points performance threshold. MAN President Mansur Ahmed was emphatic that the drop in the MCCI was “An indication that the manufacturing sector was still struggling.” It was at the Association’s virtual 48th Annual General Meeting (AGM) held in Lagos, last week, where Ahmed reeled out the sector’s woes since February this year when the deadly bug hit Nigeria’s shores. While pointing out, for instance, that the sector’s capacity utilization slowed to 56.8 per cent in 2019, from 57.8 per cent achieved in 2018, Ahmed lamented that the operations of eight manufacturing sectoral groups in MAN nearly shut down because of COVID-19-induced disruption in supply chain. He expressed fears that arising from the disruption, inflation, interest and exchange rates will jointly trend upward from their current states in differing magnitude of between 15 per cent and 18 per cent. Ahmed’s fears are not without some justifications. For instance, while the official Naira/Dollar exchange rate stood at N384.1542/$1 as at September 15, 2020, it was ¦ 460.00/$ in the black market. Also, the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), on Tuesday, put Nigeria’s inflation rate at 13.22 per cent for August. It was 0.40 per cent points higher than the 12.82 per cent recorded in July 2020. The 13.22 per cent inflation rate is also the highest recorded since April 2018. The rising inflation rate, according to analysts, is responsible for the erosion of consumers’ disposable income. By implication, it is also reason why manufacturers, according to Ahmed, are now contending with an inventory of unsold finished manufactured products that has risen to an all-time high of about N402.4 billion. A scarier dimension to the confusion thrown into the sector by the current crisis is perhaps, fears expressed by the MAN president and other concerned real sector operators that Nigeria’s unemployment rate could double, reaching the 50 per cent mark for the first time in history. According to data from the NBS, Nigeria’s unemployment rate as at the second quarter of 2020 is 27.1 per cent, indicating that about 21.7 million Nigerians are unemployed. The data, which was seen by The Nation, also revealed that worst-hit are Nigerian youths with over 13.9 million currently unemployed. The implications of Nigeria’s rising unemployment scourge are telling. The rising violent crimes and the widespread insecurity across the country, many people believe, are largely traceable to the rising unemployment rate. Today, kidnapping, advance fee fraud, otherwise called 419, armed robbery, prostitution, cultism, drug and child trafficking, among others, have become daily occurrences. There has also been an upsurge in violent campaigns by terrorist groups, particularly the dreaded Boko Haram blood hounds in the North east. Many Nigerian youths, for lack of paid employments, have become ready recruits into terrorist organisations, a development that may have reinforced fears that if the unemployment rate reaches the 50 per cent mark as predicted by Ahmed, the country will indeed, be in for serious troubles. Typically, manufacturers, who are widely acknowledged as providing the strongest linkage to creating new jobs, improving value addition and creating wealth, would have risen to the occasion to avert the impending doom by creating jobs. Sadly, however, they are currently in no position to do that. The economic slowdown caused by total or partial lockdown to curb the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic constrained the capacity of manufacturers to help stem the rising tide of unemployment. Rather than create new jobs, private sector operators are cutting jobs in order to reduce overheads and stay afloat. Some of them have also slashed the salaries of their workers lucky to remain in their employers’ payroll. Even before the dislocation caused by the pandemic, manufacturers have been grappling with epileptic electricity supply, which has continued to push up their cost of production. In 2019 alone, manufacturers spent over N67.38 billion on self-generated electricity to keep their businesses running. According to manufacturers, inadequate electricity supply had become a huge challenge, as energy cost has continued to take a huge chunk of their production cost, accounting for over 38 per cent of the sector’s production cost. As if the perennial crises in the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI) where the quantity and quality of electricity supply are barely enough to power manufacturers’ operations, incessant increases in tariff without a commensurate improvement in generation, transmission and distribution may have added to their frustration. Despite the devastating impact of the pandemic and the crash in oil price, manufacturers are still being inundated with numerous, oftentimes duplication of demands from the three tiers of government in form of taxes, levies, fees, permits, etc. They are also continually overwhelmed with multiple regulations from different agencies which excessive drive for revenue has put real sector operators under pressure. This is also as dearth of trade facilitation infrastructure, poor access to the nation’s sea ports and longer turnaround time for clearance of cargo collectively stifle the smooth operations of manufacturing concerns. Based on the feedbacks from the MCCI report, manufacturers are increasingly finding it difficult to source Foreign Exchange (forex) for the importation of raw materials, machinery and spares that are not available locally. At the last count, over 40 per cent of manufacturers’ dollar needs are unmet, constraining them from operating at full capacity. The Nation, however, learnt that a number of factors are responsible for the lack of access to forex, including the significant decline in oil price, the servicing of loans, which is in foreign exchange; and the payment of subsidy in the downstream petroleum industry. The Federal Government’s recent initiative towards unifying the forex windows in the country sure went down well with manufacturers. “It is our conviction that the foreign exchange unification initiative will engender a regime of a balanced participation for forex users and promote a transparent, as well as efficient allocation of forex required for sustained economic growth,” Ahmed said. But it will, however, gladden his heart and those of other real sector operators if the CBN ensures that the unavoidable shocks that would result from multiple exchange transition to a single exchange regime are properly managed to have minimal effect on the sector. The MAN president conveyed this sentiment when he said, for instance, that “The burden of foreign currency denominated loans and offsetting of existing credit commitments to foreign suppliers of raw materials should be given priority consideration.” Manufacturers who are investing in order to scale up production also want loans granted to them at five per cent interest rate for a period of five to seven years. These, according to them, will no doubt, improve liquidity and ramp up productivity in the sector in a manner that will cover up for obvious losses due to COVID-19. As part of efforts to ward-off the sector’s collapse and reboot the economy, manufacturers also called on President Muhammadu Buhari’s government to reopen the nation’s borders, noting that the closure, ostensibly to curb the flow of illegal goods, was stifling exports to the West African regional market. President Buhari had in August 2019 ordered the closure of Nigeria’s land borders with neighbouring Benin to curb smuggling. The government said that all imports should come through the country’s seaports where they can be monitored more easily and generate much-needed revenue. More than a year after, the borders remained closed, prompting agitations by MAN and other stakeholders for the borders to be reopened. “It is important that we open the borders immediately so that important Nigerian manufacturers who are trading in the West Africa region legitimately can resume, otherwise some of them will lose their significant market,” Ahmed said. Manufacturers also pushed for reduction of the financial pressure on them occasioned by COVID-19 by compensating those that have been forced to shut down with 60 per cent of employees’ salaries for at least three months to prevent laying offs of employees and massive unemployment. Interestingly, the Federal Government has put the right foot forward by rolling out a number of incentives and interventions aimed at salvaging the sector and reflating the economy. Some of them include the N50 billion intervention naira for SMEs, N100 billion for healthcare, pharmaceuticals and the N1 trillion for manufacturing and agriculture sectors to cushion the effect of covid-19 on manufacturing companies. Commending the initiatives, Ahmed said: “These packages expressed government’s intention to improve access to affordable long-term loans, sustain manufacturing and further promote inward-looking policies with a view to building a self-reliant economy.’’ He, however, said the association was looking forward to the release of implementation guidelines for some of the stimulus packages to spell out the conditions for their implementation.