 AKWA Ibom Oil Producing Community Development Network (AKIPCON) has hailed House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila for constituting an Ad Hoc Committee to investigate oil spills in oil producing states. The Speaker had ordered oil companies operating in the country to submit their oil spills reports to the Ad Hoc Committee on Oil Spill Clean-Up and Remediation in the Oil Producing States for investigation. AKIPCON said the probe was a good move to bring sanity to the affected areas as well as ensure a clean and sustainable environment for the well-being of Niger Delta region’s residents. In a statement yesterday in Uyo, the Akwa Ibom State capital, AKIPCON President General Dr. Ufot Phenson also called for oil spill clean-up and remediation in the oil producing states. The statement reads: “AKIPCON commends the House of Representatives …on the constitution of the ad hoc committee to investigate oil spill clean-ups and remediation in the oil producing states. “We describe the initiative as a bold step taken in the right direction as the action is intended to bring about clean and sustainable environment for societal well-being. “We and other collaborating socio-economic groups in the state, namely: Oil and Spill Minerals Producing Areas Landlord Association of Nigeria (OMPALAN), Host Communities of Nigeria Producing Oil and Gas (HOSCON), War Veterans, Ijaw Youth Council (IYC), Market and Church Associations, Policy Alert and Advocacy Coalition for the Survival of Oil Producing Communities (ACSOBEC) have observed certain omissions in the terms of reference given to the committee by the House of Representatives. “The host communities of the oil producing states, which suffer the harmful economic activities of oil companies (oil spills, gas flaring and emissions, toxic waste dumping, gas leakage and emissions, etc), should be invited to make their representations and or calls for memoranda from oil producing communities. This is to enable the House to have a balanced and on-the-spot reports/information that will help the committee’s investigation. “The terms of reference of the ad hoc committee to investigate oil spill cleanup and remediation in oil producing states should be amended to include details on compensation payments by oil companies to the victims to alleviate their prolonged suffering.