 At what point did you decide to leave your position as the Managing Director of a national newspaper to serve as a commissioner in Osun State, bearing in mind the fact that you were said to have declined the same appointment under the Oyinlola administration state? It is not true that I was offered the same position during the Oyinlola’s administration. Don’t forget that while Oyinlola was the governor, I was with the first female Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mrs. Patricia Olubunmi Etteh, as the Special Adviser Media, and you know it is a lot of work. It has always been the kind of things I want to do once I cross 50. I will start winding down from active journalism. We have to give room for other people to make their mark in the newsroom. Besides, the media was becoming too difficult to run. What I did at the New Telegraph, everybody knew. I gave it my best shot, and I felt it was the best time to slow down. But it was a lot of work. What was difficult about the job? Every editor-in-chief knows it is difficult looking for salaries when everybody is reading newspapers online. The adverts are going online. The people you are competing with do not have your overhead. You have to think of pension. You have to think of taxes. You have to think of day to day running cost. Yet you are selling a product that has a short life span. There is even room for unsold copies to be returned to you. Like I always say, there is no unsold cement, there are no unsold noodles, and we all buy FOREX in the same place, because all consumables in the print industry are imported; they are dollar denominated. It was tough, and I said well, if I get the opportunity to slow down from active journalism, I will slow down once I cross 50; specifically, when I’m 52. That is what I told God. This just falls within God’s plan for me. How did you feel leaving your baby, The New Telegraph? I wished that I was leaving it in a better place. It is in good hands now. But I wasn’t leaving it in a better place. How? I was leaving it when it was struggling, just like any other product in the industry. It was a difficult time and I wished now that I was able to pilot the affairs of the paper from a rented apartment to its own permanent site. We had plans to diversify, go into book publishing, and do other things to bring money, for a proper media industry and media player, not just a newspaper producer. I wanted to go into other things so that we could diversify. Unfortunately, the industry became constricting. I wished as I was leaving, we would be able to look back one year after, three months after, and really see a big paper that will probably be publishing books, swimming in the international waters. The industry is constricting; the hard work of the players is not showing. It is not just about the NewTelegraph; everybody is struggling. I was not just an MD of The New Telegraph while I was there, I was the President of the Nigerian Guild of Editors. I had access to painful information about the newspaper industry. That is not what I thought would happen to that industry. So where do you see the industry in 10 years’ time? I try not to visualise it. I granted an interview to a newspaper some years back and I said we are in a disappearing act. The print as we knew it was going to disappear and we would miss it. I don’t know if the print industry in Nigeria will exist in 10 years. I don’t know. How does it feel to work with politicians, especially when you will have to defend some policies you are not comfortable with? So far, I’ve not found myself defending what I don’t understand. Here,  I have not found myself defending any policy I’m not comfortable about. I guess I will cross that bridge when I get there. But I hardly see it coming, because, and I’m not speaking like a politician or an image maker, I am comfortable with my boss. Very comfortable because to have a politician and a governor who calls you and says you cannot talk about anything except what he is doing, it is very reassuring. He wants to be in the news for his activities. There had been a time in the past when people took a shot at him in the social media and I told him this is what I saw, and he said he saw it too; that it was just a distraction. He said he was not interested. He only wants his activities in the news. He works very hard. I am very comfortable. I don’t see him engaging in a policy I won’t be able to defend. Maybe one of these days, I will be able to convince him to let us have one or two media people join a ceremonial EXCO (executive council) so you can see the amount of time we spend debating issues. He doesn’t force anything on anybody. And if you bring anything to the EXCO, you have to convince him this is the reason you want us to do this, you want the government to be part of this. Even when you say you have achieved, he will ask questions. He is very patient. I doubt if I will be able to have that kind of patience in 10 years’ time. I’m very comfortable with him. It makes the job easier. So what are the things you don’t like about your current job? None. You must have experienced some culture shock when you took up the appointment… It is not my first time swimming in the same water with politicians, and I think the water here is a bit clearer. It is just the politics part of it. But having done a little bit of politics in the Guild, it wasn’t too shocking. I just want to come to the office, do my proposals and figure out where the governor is going, how many media people are going with him? I want to send stories out. I want our photo to be on the front page. That is all I wanted to do. I remember one day, I complained and the coordinating director of the ministry told me that I would have to receive visitors. That was the first one that was difficult. People walk in and they want to speak with you. They want one thing or the other I wasn’t used to. Even at the National Assembly while working for Mrs Etteh, I didn’t have to deal with that. But this is home. I’m just about 30 minutes away from my home town. There are people coming in that you have to attend to in addition to your job. I didn’t have to do that anywhere else before. Sometimes you have to smile when you don’t need to smile. It is just the politics part of it. Apart from that, it is just non-stop hours. The hours are really tedious. And if a journalist tells you that the hours are tedious, you can imagine how tedious they can be, because being a journalist is already tedious; you already know that the hours are endless. But here, one day just merges into the other. You are going somewhere and they say we are going somewhere. And then you remember that you have a whole trolley of files and you know you have to drag them everywhere, and I know I can work anywhere. What are you missing about the newsroom? I miss not being able to say what is on my mind without considering the political correctness of it. Here, I have to be prim and proper. I miss not being able to hop and go to the South East and move from the South East to the North West. I miss not being able to interact with everybody in the course of the job. I miss the newsroom atmosphere. I miss not being able to express my opinion. I can’t just go on TV to discuss and I can’t do newspaper review on TV. Above all, I miss writing. Talking about the Guild politics, some people didn’t want you as the president. What could have been responsible for this? It is not about many people not wanting me. I’m the only president in the history of the Guild that has run unopposed for two terms. But Steve Osuji wanted to run against you and he was disqualified… We all respond to different situations in different ways. That was his own response to the situation. But I will rather not go into the disqualification thing. I will still say that I was one of the most favoured presidents of the Guild. I had a good team and we were able to do our bit. I ran unopposed even to the second tenure that I had to contend opposition in Steve Osuji. I would have loved to go head to head with him and have an election. He was a worthy opponent. I would not have had any problem contesting against him. I can still say boldly that I could still have won hands down because the Guild is about constituencies. The Guild is North, West and East. Those are the three zones. Politics, whether APC or PDP, is a game of numbers. I knew which newsrooms were with me. I had no fear and I didn’t like that he was disqualified. A lot of people thought it had to do with me. I can still remember what I was wearing, where I was sitting when I got the information that he was disqualified, but it wasn’t me, and I was shocked. I even sent a text asking: ‘Can it be reversed?’ Because I knew what it would look like. We made the constitution and we all agreed, and Steve Osuji was party to it. But he has moved on and I have moved on. What has been your greatest challenge working for this government? Not being able to sleep when I want to. It is just the long hours. That will be the greatest challenge. Like I said, working with Governor Oyetola is not so political. Maybe when the elections come closer, it will become different. But for now, it is just about doing what needs to be done. And that is what I have been for the past 30 years. No great challenge, except the hours are a bit longer. You are very close to many politicians. What really endears you to them? I can’t say I’m endeared to them. It is just the nature of the job. If you are the editor-in-chief of a newspaper, you have to smile at governors. It is not that you have a choice in the matter. You need their supplements. You are going to organise an award and you want this governor to be there, you need to present a letter. I, as the MD of The New Telegraph, went to deliver the letters to the awardees. I didn’t DHL the letters. The personal touch was the reason those two awards by The New Telegraph were successful. God helped me. I didn’t delegate what I didn’t have to delegate. I would go with the members of the management. It wasn’t a choice. It was not that they particularly liked me, but I was in their face. I had a job to do. I had a business to run. If you do a column some people like, it endears you to them. Sometimes, they would not like what you wrote. I had given my back page to a governor to respond to me before. I think it is just the nature of the job. Most editors are close to politicians. They don’t have a choice about that. Are you aspiring for a political office? That is 100 per cent in the hands of God. Left to me, it is capital no. I have worked very hard all my life. I really like less trouble, more money. Not more troubles. I think politics is more of a responsibility, and I give it to those that have been in it for many years. Left to me, I will say not likely. But then, a lot of things have happened in my life that I didn’t plan for. So, I will say never say never. What has been the greatest achievement of this government? There are things Governor Oyetola has done that have been widely celebrated on the issue of education. But the one thing I know about this government is the governor’s determination to move the state from being a civil servants’ only state to being an economic hub. I see it in the way the man at the helm of affairs manages the funds and we crack jokes about where he finds the money. We are supposed to be broke, but we are paying a backlog of pensions. We are supposed to be broke, we are paying salaries. We are paying the pensions of those who are just leaving. We are doing this, we are doing that. When a businessman is at the helm of affairs, the way he manages funds is different. Every other thing comes under it. It is not in paying salaries that is an achievement; it is in the fact that this man has found a way to squeeze water out of stone. We are just wondering how he does it. We ask him and he says it is God that is blocking leakages and working with your priorities and just staying focused. I think the greatest achievement is the financial management of the governor. Of course, it is not so convenient. I still don’t have an official car. But you can see a man who wants to make a difference, so it is not difficult to align with him to understand why money is not flowing in a certain direction. He wants Nigerians, by the time he is done, to find Osun as a place for vacation. So we are bringing investors into tourism. He has done a citizen need assessment and he has found out what the people really want. It is not about him deciding that everybody must do this. But for one governor to be able to renovate 332 health care centres in less than two years is an achievement. There is always something going on. Why is it difficult for many women to edit newspapers in Nigeria, especially daily newspapers? The explanation for me is very easy and simple. A woman has a duty to the universe. A woman gets pregnant and takes a time off, which is almost a year of your life to make one baby. You have to run your home. It takes a lot out of you and takes away opportunities in the newsroom. It is difficult. And if you look around, it is not that publishers don’t want to have female editors; it is just like after a while the women tend to go sideways instead of moving up, because of our responsibilities to our families. I tasted it myself. I took two years off, two full years from journalism, to pay more attention to my family. It is not a job you share with anybody. Journalism is a jealous lover. He doesn’t want you to do any other thing. Even you men know how difficult it is for you to be proper fathers. How many editors, male, attend PTAs? You can now imagine how difficult it is to be the one that takes your child for immunization. I didn’t get to take all my children for immunization. I still remember the vivid one that I drove my younger sister and my son where he was going to take his immunization and I drove back to the office. It is because of who we are. A woman has so much to do. You lose those opportunities. While we are busy being the home maker, the men just keep growing. And then it is all about the men in our lives; it is all about the man in the office or the man you are married to. You have to do the juggling of the boards.  I know some female journalists who are into business because it is more convenient to raise their children and make their husbands happy. That is why you don’t find a lot of women there. It is not as if there is a lot of money in it. Your husband is going to tell you: ‘What exactly is this about? What are you coming home late for? You can’t change your car without my assistance.’ So you need passion and lots of grace of God to keep going.