 The former Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) governor, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, fired the salvo when he urged the government to invest in local production of solar panels. According to him, the availability of electricity off-grid could be the game changer for small businesses and light up the flame of development that would result in the growth of the nations’ gross domestic product (GDP) as a result of value creation along the ecosystem. He said the major raw material for the solar panel production is in abundance in the country while the sun from which the panels will generate power is also available. The Managing Director, Omega Dolak Int. Limited (Green Electric), Olusegun Aderinde Daniel agreed no less with the former traditional ruler. He said aside the fact that nature is so friendly with the country, there are more than 250billion metric tons of solar energy in one state of the Southwest. “So in the country, we have trillions of metric tons of silica which is the principal raw material or ingredient for formulation, development and processing and refining of solar panels, the source of solar or green electricity. Renewable industry is heavily blessed in this part of Africa because  we have the core input-aluminium, silicate , magnesium, copper, selenium, zinc; these are all ingredients blended together  and we get solar panels and solar energy at a cheaper rate more than carbon and gas globally. It is also repairing the damaged ozone layer that has been heavily depleted because of carbon monoxide which leads to carbon oxyhemoglobin that normally suffocates people. So this green energy brings about long life. For the next 100 years, we have got a magic that can revolutionise the economy of the whole Africa,” he said. According to him, the continent is blessed with sun, adding that if Germany could be doing 39,000megawatts (Mw) with its temperate weather; Britain doing between 3,000 Mw of renewable energy with its poor climate, Nigeria could do more than 100,000Mw for the whole of West Africa. “So we have a bigger future that we have not harnessed, we have just discovered that we have it, we have not started it all. Now that the former CBN chief has shown strong interest, we just pray that, the private sector/the government, people like Works and Housing Minister Babatunde Fashola, should also support it because housing is the major beneficiary, the R1- the residential housing, the C1- the commercial, the DI-the industrial sector, then the special service, people can who cannot pay electricity tariff,” he said.  CBN’s N500m intervention The apex bank has introduced a Solar Intervention Fund that will offer obligors access to credit facility that will not exceed a maximum of N500million maximum in a bid to provide affordable electricity to rural dwellers. Its document entitled: ‘Framework for Implementation of the Solar Connection Facility” stated: “The central bank has introduced the solar connection intervention facility to complement the Federal Government’s effort of providing affordable electricity to rural dwellers through the provision of long-term low-interest credit facilities to the Nigeria Electrification Project pre-qualified home solar value chain players that include manufacturers and assemblers of solar components and off-grid energy retailers in the country.” On the working capital, it said the cash would “be determined as a percentage of the average of three year adjusted projected cash flows subject to the maximum of limit of N500million.” It said the pathways to energy access, financial inclusion and poverty reduction were closely linked and required rapid scale of pay-as-you-go off-grid technologies that would create a $2billion (N7.5trillion) annual market opportunity, with penetration currently less than five per cent of total market potential. It explained that to support the economic recovery in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Federal Government launched the initiative as part of the Economic Sustainability Plan (ESP) to achieve the rollout of five million new solar-based connections in communities that were not grid-connected. It stated that the programme was expected to generate an additional N7billion increase in tax revenues per annum and $10million in annual import substitution. According to the CBN, the solar connection scheme is a Federal Government initiative, which aims to expand energy access to 25 million individuals (five million new connections) through the provision of solar home systems or connection to a mini grid. Other objectives are to increase local content in the off-grid solar value chain and facilitate the growth of the local manufacturing industry; as well as incentivise the creation of 250,000 new jobs in the energy sector. It said the facility would be administered at an “all-in” interest rate of not more than nine per cent per annum. The CBN, however, added that as part of its COVID-19 relief package, the interest rate to be charged up to February 28, 2021 would not exceed five per cent per annum. It warned that the fund must not be used to finance activities such as sales or deployment of fully (100 per cent) imported solar home systems components with no proof of existing local content or credible plan for near-term integration of local content.  Expert react The CEO, Prostar Global Energy Group, Chief Hyman Udemba, said the CBN N500m solar energy intervention fund is a good step in a good direction towards electric power sufficiency in Nigeria. The cash allocation for the intervention may only be able to establish about 10 set of 10Mw/annum capacity solar panels assembly factories, or two sets of 50Mw/annum solar panels capacity factories. This is a far cry from what is needed as an emergency intervention programme considering the enormous short falls in the conventional power generation and power needs in the country. He said the serious question is ‘who would be the beneficiaries’, may remain answered as the programme lack wide consultations. He said: “With the current distribution of less that 5000Mw, a measly supply for a country which needs an estimated 40,000Mw to meet its basic power needs, it means that about 47per cent of Nigerians do not have access to grid electricity, and those who have, would always face regular power rationing. To this end, the CBN intervention, may have aimed at making solar panels cheaply available to provide the basic power needs through off-grid solar systems. A well articulated program indeed, but incomplete as solar panel is not the only component of renewable (photo voltaic) energy. A major balance of system component remain the deep cycle batteries which currently attracts a 20per cent tariff with about 50per cent cost ratio for and average installation, and yet not even a single factory manufacturing the batteries could be found in Nigeria. “The intervention is also in line with the Federal Government centered vision 30:30:30, which aims to achieve a 90per cent electrification rate, and power generation capacity of 30MW with 30% coming from renewable energy sources by 2030. “Unfortunately this lofty program which is more of ad-hoc arrangement may fail for reasons which include but not limited the absence of the enabling infrastructures, factories products evacuation policies, human capacity building, trade balance policies with foreign countries and import tariffs. “In my opinion, Nigeria has institutions through which technological advancement in every aspect of our national life could be achieved. And unless we look inward to to make use of all these institutions to establish enabling local technological fits and infrastructures, the dream of local manufacturing competing with global products may only be an illusion. And hence the beneficiaries of the intervention may likewise fizzle out in a short while for lack of capacity to compete with the global products in their likes.” He said the National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructures (NASENI), for example was set up around 1985 to pioneer infrastructural advancement in technology in the country with emphasis on human capacity building and infrastructural settings. According to him, in 2006, when Federal Government rolled out its policies like the National Energy Policy (NEP), as well as the National Renewable Energy Master Plan (NREMP), an evidence of its seriousness about solar energy, NASENI in collaboration with the private sector, was the only federal government agency, going by its mandate, to venture into deployment of solar energy to power basic office appliances in all their centres across the country. And assured that solar energy systems could successfully be used in Nigeria, advanced to solar panels manufacturing in one of their centres at Karishi, Abuja. ‘NASENI invested greatly on human capacity building in solar technology before physically setting up a manufacturing factory for solar panels and with the intent to replicate same for private sectors and regional/state government who may wish to embark on solar panels production. Sadly, the federal government did not share with dream of the agency it established and NASENI ended up manufacturing solar panels for sales and had remained non noncompetitive and hence non productive relatively. “And since about 80per cent of the components of the solar panels are currently imported, especially the silicon cells, the CBN may do better to sponsor or support NASENI and Raw Material Research Institute in the research and development and hence production of the silicon Crystaline wafers, now called the solar cells, produced from silica. Other parts of the solar panels which include the rear polymer plastic back-sheet, and soldering flux, could be researched and produced locally and hence giving an edge to the local assembly or manufacturing of the solar panels(assembly of solar cells). “In as much solar panels are in high demand in Nigeria, it is obvious that no one cares to know the quality variance or the country of origin. The driving force in the solar energy business in Nigeria is the price. And so for local manufacturers, they will likely face price competition with the imported brands which are 80per cent imports by the Chinese manufacturers representatives of Chinese origins resident in Nigeria. And so, with Nigeria as their dumping ground, the local manufacturers will hardly survive,no matter the increase in the tariff or sources of funding, incentives or grants,” he said. He said emulating the success of German 1000 Roofs on Solar Programme of 1991-1995 and 100,000 Roofs on Solar Programme of 2004, Nigeria local manufactures will have faster evacuation (sales) of locally manufactured solar panels and hence higher turnover. And so with marginal profit at high turnover they can break even comparatively against the imported brands. “The suggestion here is that the Nigeria equivalent of the German programme would entail enactment of policies that would require at least all the housing estates in Nigeria capital cities to install a minimum of 1000W solar panels on the roofs before on completion of the structure or before sales,”he said.   The role of CBN here as in Germany would be to fund banks who will manage the dispense of the facilities to individuals wishing to have their roofs on solar and to pay back the solar enhancement loans at single digit interest rate over a considerably long period of time. The policy would state that all the solar panels to be sponsored in the program must be locally produced. Besides, government could make a policy mandating all federal photo-voltaic projects to be installed using made in Nigeria solar panels. By this arrangement the local manufactures would have been assured of the local market as the end users would have to pay them for the purchases on delivery and to pay back to CBN at the agreed terms,” he explained. He said the CBN intervention would make more sense or be more meaningful if the labor ministry, customs, finance ministry and Nigerian Immigration Service collaborate to checkmate on the dumping of solar panels on the country. “Each ministry has a role to play on checkmating the excesses of foreign nationals residing in Nigeria and taking over solar energy businesses from Nigerians, with the attendant foreign exchange flight and to the detriment of local manufacturers and local dealers on renewable energy products. If the trend is not halted, the grants to the local manufacturers, though grossly inadequate may still go down the drain without traces,” he added Daniel commended that CBN intervention. He said it is a great motivating step and a stimulant to alternative energy sector development in the country. “This is a motivating engine because if you have N500million definitely you could multiply that by four. So that means you could raise N2billion to actually develop this sector with N500million coming from CBN. So, that is a great booster; it’s a catalyst; it’s an accelerative engine that will make the journey faster and make the industry more competitive especially when the interest is single digit,” he said. Solar in industries On whether solar energy could be used to run a production plant, Daniel said it was possible to run the entire country on solar energy which he said is clean and very cheap. “You can power the whole Nigeria with solar energy. There are about 10 countries in the world that everything is renewable, that in fact, anything outside renewable is criminalised. The way things are going now, between now and 2030, substantial part of Europe economy is going to be fired by solar, wind, and hydro. So, the new world order is green. Shell is in it, Total is in it, BP, Mobil, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Chevron. The time has come to harness the natural sun endowment. And even students in the school could have solar bag, so that as they are going to school, solar is being charged on their back; your mother in the villages has solar torch,  the reporter  has solar to power his laptop and computer internet, video, . so even the Zooming, teleconferencing are all powered by solar, even the whole media can be powered by solar and of course, you know that for the next 100 years, and with the equipment that have been manufactured from Europe, especially, you could have a solar of 20-30 years , so you don’t really need to live in pain with the invention of solar voltaic technology and innovation, you don’t need to live in pain because everything under the sun can be power. Water can be powered , tv, refrigerators, fan even the hospitals , the churches, schools, universities can be powered.”   