 TWhen this column advised the government not to unleash the military on #EndSARS protesters, we did not envisage that any intransigence would lay our country prostrate within days. We were concerned about our fledgling democracy, considering that should the obdurate organized protesters be confronted by a military on a war footing, the consequences may be too dire for our nascent democracy. Unfortunately, a sudden dumb attack on the organized and decent protesters has birthed an army of the decadent protesters. While the Lekki protesters were gyrating to music and patriotically waiving the national flag, the decadent protesters who have taken over are hell bent on bringing our country to its knees. With arson, banditry and stealing as their ethos, this group foolishly think that by burning public buildings and private property, burglary and stealing, maiming and killing fellow citizens, they are hurting those who have laid the country waste by their corrupt practices. Unfortunately, they have succeeded in giving the protest a bad name, which is a reason to end it. Amongst the army of the decadent protesters are drug addicts, scallywags, political thugs, the economically humiliated, the chronically unemployed, criminals, marauders and the politically displaced. For the politically tainted, criminals and marauders, their armour is to burn down everything of value, while for the economically humiliated, theirs is to gleefully steal on camera. Damn visual evidence, and morality, they mobilise their households to a burglary expedition, good name be damned. The events of the past week, has really brought out the worse in us. For some of the politically tainted decadent protesters, it is an opportunity to either effect a regime change or alternatively balkanize the country. So, the most depraved amongst them are tweaking the tales to infuse the twin national fault lines of ethnicity and religion to further blur the achievements of the decent protesters. They care not about the innocent lives that would be lost Lagos, where the decent protesters made protest elegant, beautiful and alluring, has been so devastated by the criminality of the decadent protesters. Like a group of maniacs, the decadent protesters went about town burning government and private property, as if the ashes could be used to heal their depravations. In a most depressing manner they poured scum on the nobility of protest as a democratic weapon. But enough of angst against the decadent protesters, whose counterparts in government are pretending to be hard of hearing and dim sighted. Against common sense, members of the legislative assemblies and the executive councils are yet to wake up to the warning from the #EndSARS protests, despite the dire consequences of ignoring it. They should know that while police brutality was the trigger, the angst against the governments is much deeper rooted, and they ought to be proactive in dealing with it. Unfortunately, while the decadent protesters are openly destroying our country, the decadent public officials are hideously doing the same. President Muhammadu Buhari, the commander-in-chief of the armed forces and the chief executive of the federal republic, whose legacy as president is at stake, must wake up from his lethargy over the issues troubling our country and lead the charge to heal our nation. Substantially, the anger out there is trained against the style of Mr President, and persons perceived as his die-hard supporters. The prime individual target of the arsonists, in Lagos, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the Jagaban Borgu, is a victim, mainly because he is viewed as the person who helped the president to get to power. Of course, while that is not a justification for the debauchery of the decadent protesters, it is a signal to the president to re-examine his style of governance. The chief failure of the president, is his disposition to tribalism and nepotism. For reasons best known to the president, he has perjured the provisions of section 14(3) of the 1999 constitution (as amended), which provides that: “The composition of the government of the federation or any of its agencies and the conduct of its affairs shall be carried out in such manner as to reflect federal character of Nigeria and the need to promote national unity, and also to command national loyalty, thereby ensuring that there shall be no predominance of persons from a few states or from a few ethnic or other sectional groups in that government or in any of its agencies.” While his minders are quick to abuse those who point out this illegality, and make bogus reference to dubious statistics to justify the unconstitutional conduct, we have no doubt that many of them ran under the bed when the fire came. So, the president must save his legacy by consciously changing his ways, to reflect the diversity of our country in his appointments. Many of the anger out there is because many see the president as a sectional leader. The second issue the president should address is the over centralisation of economic and political power at the centre. By publicly declaring and taking steps to diffuse some power from the centre to the states, the president would instantly turn to a hero. Whether in the northern part of the country, or the southern part, most states are economically unviable and that is impacting negatively on governance. The members of the National Assembly who receive unlawful emoluments, referred to as #EndotherSARS, should return to constitutional behaviour. They should quickly obey the provision of section 32(d) of the Third Schedule, Part 1, of the 1999 constitution, which gives the Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission the authority to determine their remuneration. Some of the aggrieved view the members of NASS as lawbreakers, and the anger against them, is because of their huge salaries and other emoluments. Again, this column joins other voices of reason to ask the NASS to come to their senses and mend their ways. With regards to some states, the angst may be a reflection of how the powers that be in the states are perceived. Of course, there are also cases of the politically displaced who see the crisis as an opportunity to regain some ground to achieve private agenda. Again while that is not an excuse to commit arson, the chief executives and the state legislators must realise that they cannot be living in opulence while the masses wallow in abject poverty. To compound their challenge, governors who answer chief security officers, have no command control of a single police officer. To heal Nigeria, those in power must restore credibility to public service otherwise the decadent protesters may burn down our country. This column urges the legislators and the executives at all levels to treat the ongoing crisis as a national emergency, to save our hard-earned democracy.