Youths in their number on Monday continued their protest against police brutality and harassment at different locations in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital. The Nation gathered that the protesters resumed at the popular Fajuyi park divide themselves into groups and operate from different locations. The protesters comprised students, Okada riders, commercial drivers, civil society bodies and other unemployed individuals. Economic and government activities in the Ado metropolis were halted as the protesters in clusters moved around and barricaded all the strategic roads including the one leading to Government House. Majorly affected are the Fajuyi Park, Adebayo, Okeyinmi, Ijigbo, Basiri, Matthew area, Old Garage Ajilosun, among others. The protesters also bombarded the Government Secretariat as well as the old Governor’s Office around 10:45 am and shut the premises barring workers from gaining access to the premises. They locked all the entrance gates to the Secretariat and civil servants who had earlier resume work were chased out while motorists and pedestrians were turned back from coming out and going into the premises. Students in public and private schools, who had earlier resumed in schools, were hurriedly asked to return home to prevent being caught in the web. The protesters armed with the Nigerian flag sang all manners of derisive songs to mock the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari. As they moved around from one point to the other, they also sang the Nigerian and Ekiti Anthems, upbraiding President Muhammad Buhari for the lopsidedness in the distribution of the nation’s wealth. One of the protesters, Joseph Dada who addressed newsmen in the Fajuyi area and attributed the protests across the nation to lackluster and inept dispositions of the Buhari led government. He said: “Enough is enough, how can SARS be killing people all over the place? How can a bag of rice be sold for N40,000? How can a governor buy the votes to win reelection even when he has not done anything to justify his re-election? “See how our youths were being killed every day. No job, no food, no house to live in. We are all suffering and we are saying these must stop. “Petrol is now sold for N160 per litre and the electricity tariff has gone up. We are now forced to pay higher tariffs for total darkness. This is callous and it must stop”.