 NECA Network of Entrepreneurial Women (NNEW) has said women are doing well in business. Speaking at a press conference in Lagos, NNEW President Mrs. Funmilayo Arowoogun said although women have done well for themselves in business, they, however, need to do more to master their businesses and be on top of their games if they want to remain relevant in their industries as entrepreneurs. She spoke ahead of the group’s  yearly summit and conference scheduled for Thursday and Friday. It has theme Moving To Mastery. The event also coincided with the 15th Anniversary of the organisation. Mrs. Arowoogun explained that the last 15 years of the network had witnessed major transformation beginning from the pioneer members who had grown their businesses to an enviable height within the business community; major achievements by successive leadership, and the leadership and members who are doing well and making an impact in their businesses. She noted that from a humble beginning, NNEW has birthed in Lagos and five chapters in four geographical spread across the country namely, Lagos, FCT, Rivers, Ogun, and Kwara states. She listed some of the achievements of its leadership in the last one and half decades as the President said the BMO boosts of NNEW Cooperative Multipurpose Society Limited; NNEW Women Microfinance Bank, Partnership with the credible organisations to commemorate the annual International Women’s Day; Partnership with Lagos State Employment Trust Fund, and the Alive & Thrive Lactation Centre at the Lagos State UniversityTeaching Hospital (LASUTH). Other programmes of the Network include Business Advisory Services, Capacity Building Programmes, Network Meetings, Advocacy and Policy Engagements, Mentoring, Exhibitions/Trade Missions, and Teenpreneurship She said women have continued to hold their space in the world of business and that NNEW’s vision of being the preferred network for building generations of successful women entrepreneurs has continued to drive members and leadership of the network to achieve more by not just doing business, but to be the master of their businesses with excellence in focus. According to her, the need for women entrepreneurs to raise their games and do more necessitated the summit theme in line with the dream of the Network founding members 15 years ago. Chairperson of the Planning Committee, Mrs. Bolanle Edwards said the yearly event targeted at the members of the Network as well as the larger community of women entrepreneurs will hold it vitrtual real-time, first of its kind. She said every summit is an improved version of the previous and that this edition will not be an exception despite the challenges of COVID-19. She charged participants to prepare themselves to maximise the opportunity, the learning, and the exposure “Moving to mastery” offers. Mrs. Edwards said speakers and panelists at the events include: First Female Managing Director, Nigeria Port Authority (NPA), Hajia Adiza Bala-Usman; Corporate Shepherd, Mr.Idoroyen Enang, and Ovilan Consulting U.K, official Mrs. Mary  Laniyan. Kofsol Group, Mrs. Kofoworola Olaosebikan; Chief Executive Business School Netherlands, Mr.Lere Baale;  Mrs. Funke Nnenna Micheals Kenya; Ope Farm, Mrs. Sinmi Sowemimo; and ILO trainer, Turin, Ms. Magarita Lalayan. She urged members and other participants to maximise the opportunity of the summit lined up of activities such as panel discussion, syndicate sessions, business games, sectoral engagement and virtual gala night. 