 TWO persons were feared dead and many others injured on Wednesday as a Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV) ran into a crowd of protesters at Alagbado area of Lagos. Footage from a viral video posted online showed two bodies being carried away by some youths. A volunteer medical corps was deployed, especially around Amikanle area, to care for the wounded, who were moved to the Hospital. Eyewitnesses said the silver SUV ran into the protesters in a bid to scare them off the road. A mob descended on the SUV and a tricycle that was also involved in the accident. Despite the heavy rains, protests again grounded Lagos, preventing those going to work or businesses from making it. Demanding a reform of the police, the protesters, who bore placards demanding the scrapping of the newly created Special Weapons and Tactic (SWAT) unit. They also demanded that only graduates with experience should be drafted into the team. At the Alausa area of the state, attempts by hoodlums to hijack the protest were repelled by the protesters who insisted that they must remain peaceful. Thugs said to have come from Agege had attempted to loot vehicles but were subdued by genuine protesters who chased them off the area. At Lekki, the protesters laid siege to the Toll gate and brought traffic to a halt, forcing vehicles to use connecting roads. The protest gathered more steam as companies supplied branded raincoats, food, snacks, waters and non-alcoholic beverages to the protesters who observed a minute silence for lives lost to SARS and police brutality in Nigeria. The protest also continued in areas like Iyana Ipaja, Igando, Onikan, Oworonshoki, Ojodu-Berger, Amuwo Odofin, Ajegunle amongst others. In Amuwo Odofin, the protest was led by Arch Bishop Samson Mustapha of Resurrection Praise Ministries International (aka Jehovah Sharp Sharp). The Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) advised Lagosians to stay home while the #SARSMUSTEND protests last or avoid certain routes if they must go out. LASTMA General Manager, Olajide Ojuyoye, who spoke on Channels, said: “The protesters are fluid. They can block any road at any time. “Do whatever you need to do by other means of communication. “You should avoid Muri Okunola, Alausa, Ozumba Mbadiwe. To access the Island, use the Third Mainland Bridge-Nnamdi Azikiwe-Eko Hotel route. “To return, go through Ojota-7up-Magodo and then walk. But as I said earlier, the protesters’ movements are fluid.” The Lagos State Police Command has arrested and commenced the orderly room trial of the policemen who harassed some female protesters in Surulere. 