Zazzau Emirate got its 19th Emir on Wednesday. He is Alhaji Ahmed Nuhu Bamalli, whose appointment was approved by Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufai. Bamalli, born in 1966, is the first emir from the Mallawa Ruling House in 100 years, following the demise of his grandfather, Emir Dan Sidi, in 1920. His appointment was announced in a statement yesterday by the Commissioner of Local Government Affairs, Alhaji Ja’afaru Ibrahim Sani. He succeeds Dr.  Shehu Idris, passed died on September 20. The late monarch reigned for 45 years. The statement said: “Governor El-Rufai congratulated His Royal Highness, Alhaji Ahmed Nuhu Bamalli on his appointment and wished him a successful and peaceful reign as Emir of Zazzau. He said: “Until his appointment as Emir of Zazzau, Alhaji Ahmed Nuhu Bamalli held the title of Magajin Garin Zazzau and served as Nigeria’s ambassador to Thailand, with concurrent accreditation to Myanmar “He has been a permanent commissioner in the Kaduna State Independent Electoral Commission in 2015.” According to the Commissioner, the new emir has worked in banking and as Executive Director and later acting Managing Director of the Nigerian Security Printing and Minting Corporation. “He was a staff of the Abuja Metropolitan Management Agency before a stint as head of Human Resources at M-Tel, the mobile communications arm of the old Nigerian Telecommunications Limited (NITEL).” The monarch studied Law at the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria and holds a master’s degree in International Relations and Diplomacy and a diploma in Organisational Leadership from Oxford University, the statement said. It added that he is also a fellow on Conflict Resolution of the University of York, United Kingdom (UK). President Muhammadu Buhari, Senate President Ahmad Lawan, governors under the Northern Governors’ Forum umbrella and All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, among others, have congratulated the new Emir of Zazzau, ALhaji Ahmed Bamali on his appointment. In a statement by his Special Assistant on Media and Publicity Garba Shehu, the President urged the emir to unite all interests in the Zazzau Emirate. The President was quoted as saying in the statement: “I congratulate you on making history by becoming the first emir from the Mallawa Ruling house in 100 years. You deserve the appointment and I am confident you will justify the confidence reposed in you. “While you bask in the glory of the moment, I want you to be the leader to all and treat all your people fairly in the performance of your duties. “This is a challenging moment and therefore, I want you to use this opportunity to unite all members of the ruling houses for the interest of your people. “May Allah grant you wisdom and guidance in the discharge of this responsibility.” Lawan described Bamalli’s appointment as well-deserved, expressing hope that the monarch would meet the high expectations of the revered office and justify the trust and confidence reposed in him. The Senate President also hailed the state authorities, particularly the people of Zazzau Emirate, for the peaceful and smooth transition after the painful exit of their 18th emir. Lawan prayed that Bamalli’s reign, like that of his predecessor, would enhance peace and development in Zazzau Emirate and Kaduna State. Congratulating the emir in a statement from his Media Office, Asiwaju Tinubu also commended El-Rufai for making a good choice in Ambassador Bamalli. The statement signed by Mr. Tunde Rahman quoted the one-time Lagos governor as saying: “Ambassador Nuhu Bamalli is a prominent diplomat, tested administrator and a first class traditional title-holder. I congratulate him on his appointment as the 19th Emir of Zazzau. “My congratulations also go to Governor Nasir El-Rufai for making a prudent appointment. As Magajin Garin Zazzau, Ambassador Bamalli distinguished himself as an excellent high chief of the Zazzau Emirate, just as he performed brilliantly well as top diplomat, serving Nigeria as Ambassador to Thailand. “Like his immediate-past predecessor, Alhaji Shehu Idris, who died last month after 45 years on the throne, Ambassador Bamalli is also a highly detribalised Nigerian and a friend of all. I urge him to continue in that fashion and consolidate on the tremendous gains recorded by the late Emir. “As the first Emir from the Mallawa Ruling House in 100 years, the burden of history is on Emir Bamalli. I pray to Almighty Allah to grant him divine wisdom, guide and protect him so he can steer the ship of the Emirate successfully. “May his reign bring forth peace, development and prosperity to the Zazzau Emirate, and indeed, to Northern Nigeria.” Speaking through their Chairman and Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong, Northern governors described Bamalli’s appointment as a good omen for the people of the Zazzau Emirate, Kaduna State and Nigeria as a whole. Lalong said: “We rejoice with you over this worthy opportunity given to you by God to serve your people like your ancestors did and also surpass their achievements because of the rich heritage they have passed down to you. “Your exposure and experience hightens the excitement that by the help of Almighty God, you will improve the lives of the people and also make valuable contributions to national development.” Lalong reminded the monarch that he was ascending the throne at a time when the nation and Northern region in particular are facing serious challenges of insecurity, poverty, illiteracy and health burden, despite its rich human and material endowments. He assured the royal father that the Northern Governors Forum will support his reign and also benefit from his wisdom and influence as they work to emancipate the region from the myriad of challenges confronting it. Former Kaduna State governor Ahmed Makarfi said the emir would deploy his wealth of experience in providing purposeful leadership for the people. Makarfi, now a senator, said: “I heartily congratulate Ambassador Ahmed Nuhu Bamalli on his appointment as the new Emir of Zazzau. I believe that the new Emir will deploy his wealth of experience to provide a purposeful leadership to both the Zazzau Emirate and the State Council of Chiefs at this challenging time. “I am confident that the new emir would build a roof large enough to accommodate all shades in the Zazzau Emirate and beyond.”