SIR: Students of public universities are still sitting idle at home with not even the slightest hope in sight about resumption of teaching and learning activities in their institutions. On the other hand, their counterparts in private institutions are receiving lectures unabated in their various institutions. If the government is doing all it can to persuade the Academic Staff Union of Universities, ASUU, to resume work, at least, the students can hope that series of negotiations might eventually lead to settlement of this industrial disagreement. But the reverse is the case, as the country’s managers of tertiary education sub-sector don’t give a damn about ending this industrial dispute. Is President Muhammadu Buhari not aware that ASUU is still on strike? The current attitudes of both the labour and the education minister are sure guarantees that the strike action will last longer than expected. Our fears are the government is not even responsible enough to acknowledge the existence of the issues raised by ASUU. One continues to ask these questions. What will it take this government to meet ASUU’s demands and for how long? Do those in charge have guilty consciences about what might be the feelings as indeed the future of those students in the public universities? When will the ASUU strike get Buhari’s intervention? Since the labour and the education ministries failed to settle this crisis, Buhari’s intervention might bring a definite solution to ASUU’s grievances. We can’t heap all the blame on ASUU alone since the authorities failed to even engage them in round table discussions. Without any doubt, the continuing failure to do so absolves ASUU from any blame. We are only at liberty to take sides when ASUU refuses to honour the government’s invitation, or through discussions, it refused to concede to its justifiable agreements. It is not that Nigerians have no right to berate, censure ASUU for the continuing delay in resumption of academic activities in our universities. But truth be told, the government too is responsible by its lackadaisical and careless attitude. Or is that provision of good tertiary education isn’t one of the major priorities of the present government? How do you expect ASUU to resume when government prides itself on having the best approach to deal decisively with ASUU? Why should anyone expect ASUU to give up on their demands when the authorities seem to see it as weakness to engage in deliberations that might lead to solution to ASUU’s problems? Instead, the present administration resorted to an insensitive measure of stopping the wages of the academics thereby starving them with their respective families. The bitter truth is we are all victims of government’s negligence and nonchalance towards our needs. We have clearly seen how government officials devoted much of their time to settle resident doctors’ grievances. Why is it not also possible for stakeholders to find a way to make ASUU suspend its ongoing strike? I noticed with dismay that the labour minister adamantly refused to even acknowledge ASUU’s strike action. Worse still is, government officials don’t have even a scruple to unashamedly post images of their children graduating from foreign universities on social media. I feel quite embarrassed whenever I come across such images. Having spent almost half the academic year at home, government should be at least be considerate about the plights of the university students. It is time to engage ASUU in meaningful negotiations.