 AFTER securing his second term during the recent governorship in Edo State, Governor Godwin Obaseki would be sworn in November. Obaseki, who contested the platform of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) would be expected to consolidate on his performance during his first term. During the governorship debate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, who contested the election on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) had described the government of Obaseki in the last four years as a failure. But, Obaseki, however, maintained that he performed creditably in his first tenure, and that he would consolidate on his achievements during the second term, if given a chance. Observers have suggested how to improve the fortunes of the economy, to make development have a more positive impact on the people. In agriculture, the government must show sincerity, by ensuring that loans procured for disbursement to farmers reach them, without being diverted. Observers also want the incoming government to come up with policies that would help to attract more investors to the agricultural sector, to empower the teeming qualified youths and boost food production. Human capital development must also be prioritised since the youths are the future of the state. Thus, in education, analysts said emphasis should be placed on building and equipping of public schools, to international standards. This, they added, should be done in such a way to make fees in public schools affordable. They also want teachers and other workers paid regularly, and the tertiary institutions that have been shut reopened and new teachers employed. Stakeholders also want the health sector revamped, and more doctors, nurses and other health workers employed to ensure efficiency and effectiveness. They also want more hospitals built and equipped. Governor Obaseki, in 2016, promised to construct primary healthcare centres in each of the 192 wards in his first tenure. The All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate declared recently that he has only been able to build 22 primary healthcare centres. Whosoever emerges governor must try to bring promise to fruition. In sports, the defunct Bendel State, which was split into two to create Edo and Delta states used the leading state in sports in Nigeria. Today, Edo is still a leading state in sports. But the incoming administration should try to build on that legacy. It should go beyond the renovation of the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium in Benin, which was carried out recently by that was recently renovated by the Obaseki administration by providing sporting facilities in all  with the 18 local government areas of the state to discover new talents and engage the youths, because an idle hand is the devil’s workshop. In commerce and industry, more modern markets should be built and equipped, with victims of the burnt markets across the three senatorial districts should be adequately compensated. The era when government depended solely on earnings from crude oil, has come to an end. Oil is not a viable asset because it not a lasting asset and it does not create employment opportunities for the people because the industry is technology-driven. Besides, the price of crude is not stable in the international market. An indigene of Edo State based in Oghara, Delta State, Mr.  Isaiah Iguahi wants the incoming government to focus on agriculture. He also wants the new administration to improve on the  EdoBest educational policy, to make it among the best in Nigeria. Iguahi said Sakpoba/Third junction has become a den of criminals and that a flyover at that spot will help to flush out social miscreants out of the area. Iguahi added: “Arts, culture and tourism should not be neglected, in view of their potential to attract investors and empower the people, especially the youths. He said the issue of flooding on Benin is a serious one. Besides, he wants the new administration to focus on inner roads and small scale industries. “In the area of finance, less emphasis must be placed on taking loans, with the huge debts to be paid, in order not to enslave the unborn generations. Women empowerment should also be given priority.” 