Two Policemen from Testing Ground Division, Iwo Road, Ibadan were on Thursday burnt to ashes. A police station in Akobo was also burnt down, looted and amunitions carted away. The culprits, suspected hoodlums and thugs also caused a scene at Bashorun, Iwo Road with sporadic gunshots. An attack was also launched on Ashi, Bodija and Alabebe, Iyana Church Police Station. Agbeni, Ogunpa, Dugbe areas of Ibadan also has record of violent clashes with some of the shops in Agbeni looted in the wee hours of the night. The hoodlums who operated in separate groups also unleash mayhem on innocent individuals as shops and stores within the vicinity were also bugled in the process. Crisis started early Thursday morning when a policeman was alleged to have knocked down a youth in what seem an innocent road accident but which attracted the anger of the hoodlums. The situation led to the attack of the policemen which led to two of them been overpowerered from the angry youths. They were burnt in a bonfire made in the middle of the road. The efforts of the State Security Anti-Crime Task Force Team codenamed Operation Burst who stormed the area to calm the angry youths did little to stem the tide. However, the effort was good to buy enough time for Governor Seyi Makinde to arrive the scene to appease the youths who were ready to launch a massive attack on the Testing Ground Police Station. While the youths were armed with various dangerous weapons and positioned at a big shopping complex not far from the police station, the armed policemen also looked set to defend themselves and the facility around. The Governor who arrive the scene from Idi Ape disembarked from his car and joined the angry youths on foot appealing for calm. The Governor who walked the street h of the road to Iwo-Road where the police officers were burning espressed sadness over the event appealing that the youths should give peace a chance. Shops, businesses and offices within the axis were under lock and keys as early as 7am when the youths started grouping to launch the attack. Sources hinted that if not for the intervention of the Governor, the crisis would have been bloddier at Iwo Road. Other areas which has been under heavy tension in the last three days was however peaceful on Thursday. Apata, Elebu, 110, Omi-Adio, Challenge, Molete, Beere, had no roadblock mount while little traffic. Olodo, Iyana Church, Bank, Monatan, Academy areas of the capital city also recorded palpable fears and tension.