 PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday urged Nigerians to be wary of actions and utterances that can injure the nation’s unity and progress. The President spoke at the launching of the 2021 Armed Forces Remembrance Day (AFRD) Emblem and Appeal Fund in Abuja. He said the event should remind Nigerians of the need to guard jealously the unity of the nation, which was won at a great cost. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, President Buhari said: “We honour the memory of our gallant officers and men who have paid the supreme sacrifice in order to keep the country united as one entity. “The nation remains grateful for the efforts and sacrifice of the Armed Forces, especially in the fight against insurgency and other internal security challenges confronting Nigeria. “The Armed Forces Remembrance Day or Veterans’ Day, as it is known in some parts of the world, is an important event observed in commemoration of the end of the Second World War. “In Commonwealth member-countries, the Remembrance Day is observed on November 11 yearly. However, for us, the date was changed to January 15, annually, to accommodate the commemoration of the end of the Nigerian Civil War.” On security operations in the Northwest and Northcentral, the President expressed delight at the return of normalcy in some areas that previously witnessed security challenges. “Our dear nation has witnessed numerous security challenges since independence. “These security threats have undermined Nigeria in the areas of trade, investment and economy, education, health as well as agriculture and frequently denied Nigerians the freedom of movement. “I am, however, pleased to state that a lot has been achieved in the internal security operations in the Northwest and Northcentral zones where, in addition to Operations Lafiya Dole, Hadarin Daji, Harbin Kunama, Whirl Stroke,  other operations, such as Accord, Sahel Sanity and Katsina, were successfully launched. “This has led to the return of normalcy in some of the affected areas. However, all hands must be on deck to check attacks on soft targets,” he said.   