  THIS   is one of the periods in which newspaper or newsmagazine columnists find themselves in a dilemma. Such dilemma is not on whether to write or not. Rather, it is on the right issue that can be the subject of writing at a particular time. Ordinarily, the problem of a worthy columnist is not a dearth of ideas but a deluge of them. For an average columnist, thinking of a subject to write about is like placing a magnet at a strategic centre to attract many iron elements around. As a columnist thinks of a subject to write about, many other subjects get magnetised, and throw themselves torrentially to him for choice. And, in his search for a choice to be given priority, he becomes entangled in a proverbial cobweb of dilemma.  That is the situation in which yours sincerely is now ensnared psychologically. Today, the original issue planned to be addressed in this column is the recent ‘ENDSARS’ national mass protest and Nigerian governing style. But while ruminating and researching on the presentation of  that issue, the global media waves reverberatingly throbbed with breaking news on another equally crucial issue which promptly diverted my attention from the protest and its aftermath implications. That new issue is about a satanic cartoon that sparked off a new religious brouhaha, in France, last weekend. The cartoon, as usual, was meant to denigrate Islam and malign the personality of Prophet Muhammad (SAW), the greatest man that ever lived. Preamble Time flies. The year 2002 was like yesterday. That was the year in which wild religious riots broke out fortuitously in Kaduna State. The immediate precipitate of those riots was an event of Miss World beauty pageant which was scheduled to take place in Nigeria in November/December that year. Incidentally, the time earmarked for that event coincided with that year’s sacred month of Ramadan in which all Muslims around the world were heartily engaged in statutory fast. The event was the 52nd edition of that global beauty contest. And, it was to be held, for the first time, in Nigeria. Sensing the possible clash of that event with spiritual interest of Islam, the Muslims hinted the organizers of Miss World pageant, as well as the government, about the insensitivity of holding that event in the sacred month. But, characteristic of Nigerian government’s attitude to anything Islam, and the pathological audacity of certain Nigerian non-Muslims to ride roughshod over the divine religion of Allah, the precautionary hint was ignored with its entailed security implications and warning. At that time, Chief Olusugun Obasanjo (a Chritian) was the President of Nigeria and, the grand finale of the event was scheduled to take place in Abuja, the country’s federal capital. Although, it was not the government that organized that event, nevertheless, the Muslims expected the government to play an unbiased role by cautioning those organizers if only for security reason. However, the warning was not heeded in the usual irrational belief that freedom of speech and actions was guaranteed in Nigerian constitution. It took a violent riot to break out which unnecessarily consumed scores of lives before they all realized that elasticity, especially in matters of freedom, has its limit. By the time the dust of those riots settled, the die had been cast regrettably as over 100 human lives had become human corpses. Two particular incidents helped tremendously to ignite that carnage. One was the insistence of the organizers which included Silverbird Communication as a partner, ongoing ahead with the event despite the warning. The other was an article written in ThisDay newspaper by a female columnist, Isioma Daniel, who wrote in the blasphemous article that “if Prophet Muhammad (SAW) was alive, he would not only approve the Nigeria’s hosting of the event, but also choose one of those beauty contestants as a wife”. Eventually, that event did not hold in Nigeria. It was taken to the United Kingdom where it rightly belonged. Also, about eight years ago, 2012, an amateurish film of sarcasm was acted in the United of States of America to ridicule Islam and, to characteristically, mock Prophet Muhammad (SAW). That was in November that year. By the time the noice over that devilish film was dying down, two weeks later, a satanic cartoon emerged in France to ridicule the same Prophet Muhammad. That was a confirmation of the existence of a lunatic market in the West, where all delirious people go to strip naked in order to engage in a brawl of incurable insanity. The West’s Capitalist Orientation From time immemorial, denigration of the personality of Prophet Muhammad (SAW) and Islam has been a peculiar hobby, a lunatic terrain with which the Muslim world has become well familiar. Therefore, that President Emmanuel Macron of France renewed that lunacy last weekend did not come as a surprise. After all, a dog that would die in perdition would never heed the warning a hunter. Right now, many Muslims countries have announced the boycott of products from France. For many centuries, the so-called Orientalists had adopted defamation of the Prophet’s character and denigration of Islam as a strategy with which to gain cheap fame and to make easy money. And, since their main objective, according to their capitalist orientation, was only to make money for the acquisition of the vanity of this ephemeral world. But, if we view the matter from another angle, the obnoxious action of those infidels can become understandable. For instance, who else in the history of mankind, could have provided the type of elastic market that those lotus eaters manipulate to get the money they need for their vainglorious lives? Thus, for centuries, they had written all sorts of blasphemous fables in books, pamphlets, magazines and newspapers as a way of making illegal money from those writings without thinking of the feelings of billions of Muslims in the world. That was how many Westerners emerged as Professors of Islamic History or Theology or Jurisprudence in the London School of Oriental Studies (SOAS). In reality, if the name of Prophet Muhammad (SAW) is removed from the literary projects of the West today what else will remain for them to make cheap fame and make cheap money? Unique discipline The discipline imparted by Islam in its adherents is such that no Muslim of worth would ever go to the extent of writing any rubbish about any other religion and audaciously claim authority on it. As a matter of fact, no true Muslim will ever malign the personality of Jesus verbally let alone in writing and go scot free. He/she would immediately be reprimanded or sanctioned by fellow Muslims, not only because Jesus, like Muhammad (SAW), was a Prophet of Allah, but also because Islam, as a divine religion abhors indiscipline in all its ramifications. Besides, both the Qur’an and the Bible strongly admonish against such blasphemous utterances and writings even as they treat them as sacrilegious acts against any Prophet of Allah. Qur’an 61 Verse 7-8 says:   “Who does greater wrong than one who invents falsehood against Allah, even while being invited to Islam? Allah does not guide those who deliberately do wrong. Their intention is to extinguish Allah´s Light with the wind of their mouths: But (unknown to them) Allah has perfected His Light, even if the Unbelievers detest it”. And, in the Bible, the following can be found: “Whoever speaks a word against the son of man will be forgiven. But whoever speaks a word against the Holly Spirit will not be forgiven in this age or in the one to come”. Mathew 12: 32 Islamic Norm In Islam, the general norm is that people who live in glass house do not throw stones. But despite the blasphemous books of yesteryears and the nefarious films and cartoons of today, Muslims should rather remain calm and emulate the equanimity of the noble Prophet who Allah described as a unique exemplar for mankind. After all, most of the same Western Orientalists whose major hobby is to malign Prophet M uhammad (SAW), have had cause to reverse themselves in many of their publications after being confronted with impeccable facts. Michael Hart’s Book At a time in the 1970s when the Western Orientalists were busy basking in the euphoria of vanity and vainglory, as the echoes of their hostility to Islam was reverberating to all parts of the world, a Jewish American Astrophysicist suddenly came up with a book that shook the Western world to the marrows. The man’s name is Michael H. Hart. He was born on April 28, 1932 at a time when Adolf Hitler was just beginning to cook his Nazi party which eventually catapulted him onto the chair of dictatorship in Germany. Until Michael Hart’s book entitled ‘The 100: A Ranking of the most Influential Persons in History’ stormed the market in 1978, it was unimaginable that such a book could ever come from the West. Within weeks of its publication, over 500000 copies of the book were sold mostly in Europe and America. Some people bought the book out of curiosity. Others bought it to know the other side of the story which the West had touted viciously for centuries about Islam and its great Prophet. The most spectacular point in that book was the naming of Prophet Muhammad (SAW), out of the 100 personalities listed in the book, as the greatest man that ever lived. If the book had been written by an Arab or an African or an Asian it would not have come as a surprise to an average European or American. But the fact that such a book was written by a Jewish American and marketed in the West, immediately removed any toga of doubt about its authenticity even as it lifted the veil of blatant ignorance from the face of the antagonists of Islam. What prompted Michael Hart to write the book at that time remains a puzzle. But, ever since its publication, Europe and America have not been the same again especially in their attitude towards Islam. After reading the book, most Westerners came to realize how ignorant they had been not just about the person of Muhammad (SAW) as a Prophet, but also about Islam as a divine religion. Their further search for knowledge in religious sphere has since altered their old perception of Islam considerably. And, that was why they stopped calling Islam ‘Muhammedanism’ in the contemporary time. Although, the book attracted some particles of criticism from some diehard Christian bigots who disagreed with Michael Hart’s choice, (especially his ranking of Muhammad vis a vis Jesus), no one of them has genuinely been able to fault that choice on the basis of any facts superior to those of the author. And, from thence, Islam has confidently carved out a special niche for itself in the West. The rest is left to history. In a nutshell, Michael Hart’s book has succeeded in achieving two main objectives hitherto undreamt of in those dark worlds. One of those objectives is the exposure of many Westerners to Islam. The other is the rapid growth of that religion in Europe and America despite the suffocating environment forged for its adherents. Today, Washington and London officially champion the adoption of the tradition of hosting the Muslims at fast-breaking (Iftar) in the month of Ramadan while the call to prayer (Adhan) now sounds much louder through the minarets in European and American cities and towns. Reason for Writing the Book As to ‘why Michael Hart wrote that book, it is better to hear from the horse’s mouth. Here is what he said about the listed personalities and the choice of Prophet Muhammad as the greatest man that ever lived: “My choice of Muhammad to lead the list of the world’s most influential persons may surprise some readers and may be questioned by others, but he was the only man in history who was supremely successful on both the religious and secular levels. Of humble origins, Muhammad founded and promulgated one of the world’s great religions, and became an immensely effective political leader”. Reminiscence “Today, thirteen centuries after his death, his influence is still powerful and pervasive. The majority of the persons in this book had the advantage of being born and raised in centres of civilization, highly cultured or politically pivotal nations. Muhammad, however, was born in the year 570, in the city of Mecca, in southern Arabia, at that time, a backward area of the world, far from the centres of trade, art, and learning. Orphaned at age six, he was reared in modest surroundings. Islamic tradition tells us that he was an illiterate… His economic position improved when, at age twenty-five, he married a wealthy widow. Nevertheless, as he approached forty, there was little outward indication that he was a remarkable person……” Arab Situation “Most Arabs at that time were pagans, who believed in many gods. There were, however, in Mecca, a small number of Jews and Christians; it was from them, no doubt, that Muhammad first learned of a single, omnipotent God who ruled the entire universe. When he was forty years old, Muhammad became convinced that this one true God (Allah) was speaking to him, and had chosen him to spread the true faith. For three years, Muhammad preached only to close friends and associates. Then, about 613, he began preaching in public. As he slowly gained converts, the Meccan authorities came to consider him a dangerous nuisance”. Emigration “In 622 CE, fearing for his safety, Muhammad fled to Medina (a city some 200 miles north of Mecca), where he had been offered a position of considerable political power. This flight, called the Hegira, was the turning point of the Prophet’s life. In Mecca, he had had few followers. In Medina, he had many more, and he soon acquired an influence that made him a virtual dictator. During the next few years, while Muhammad’s following grew rapidly, a series of battles were fought between Medina and Mecca. This was ended in 630 with Muhammad’s triumphant return to Mecca as conqueror. The remaining two and one-half years of his life witnessed the rapid conversion of the Arab tribes to the new religion”. After His Demise When Muhammad died, in 632, he was the effective ruler of all of southern Arabia. The Bedouin tribesmen of Arabia had a reputation as fierce warriors. But their number was small; and plagued by disunity and internecine warfare, they had been no match for the larger armies of the kingdoms in the settled agricultural areas to the north. However, unified by Muhammad for the first time in history, and inspired by their fervent belief in the one true God, these small Arab armies now embarked upon one of the most astonishing series of conquests in human history. To the northeast of Arabia lay the large Neo-Persian Empire of the Sassanids; to the northwest lay the Byzantine, or Eastern Roman Empire, centred in Constantinople. Numerically, the Arabs were no match for their opponents. On the field of battle, though, the inspired Arabs rapidly conquered all of Mesopotamia, Syria, and Palestine. By 642, Egypt had been wrested from the Byzantine Empire, while the Persian armies had been crushed at the key battles of Qadisiya in 637, and Nehavend in 642. But even these enormous conquests, which were made under the leadership of Muhammad’s close friends and immediate successors, Ali, Abu Bakr, Uthman and ‘Umar Bn al-Khattab, did not mark the end of the Arab advance”. Further Spread of Islam “By 711, the Arab armies had swept completely across North Africa to the Atlantic Ocean. There, they turned north and, crossing the Strait of Gibraltar, overwhelmed the Visigothic kingdom in Spain. How, then, is one to assess the overall impact of Muhammad on human history? Like all religions, Islam exerts an enormous influence upon the lives of its followers. It is for this reason that the founders of the world’s great religions all figure prominently in this book. Since there are roughly twice as many Christians as Moslems in the world, it may initially seem strange that Muhammad has been ranked higher than Jesus. There are two principal reasons for that decision. First, Muhammad played a far more important role in the development of Islam than Jesus did in the development of Christianity. … It is this unparalleled combination of secular and religious influence which I feel entitles Muhammad to be considered the most influential single figure in human history”. Summary The summary of Michael Hart’s analytical justification for his choice of Prophet Muhammad (SAW) as the greatest human being that ever lived has not been faulted and can never be faulted. He, Prophet Muhammad (SAW) was the greatest man alive and he remains the greatest of all the dead even 1400 years after his demise. And that greatness continues to wax stronger as the population of the Muslims increases geometrically across the world despite the implacable hostility from the West. Revision When Michael Hart revised and reprinted the book in 1992, he dropped some names and retained most of those who made the original list with their rankings. Some of those he dropped included Vladimir Lenin of Russia who established the Unon of Soviet Socialist Republic in 1917 and Mao Zedong who was tagged the father. The reason that Hart gave for dropping them was that communist empires which qualified them for that list, in the first instance, had collapsed. He however listed some new names which included Mikhail Gorbachev and Williams Shakespeare. Epilogue What is yet to be clear to the Westerners about Islam is that Prophet Muhammad is like the sun in the midst of stars, whenever it rises, all those starts will bow in reverence. And it does not bother the Sun if all the blind men and women of this world, including Emanuel Macron of France, deny its existence. The sun will always be the sun and, the scorching effect of its beaming rays will always punish any naked eye that wants to see it in action.